articles/multifactor-authentication/index2.md, before:

---
title: Multifactor Authentication in Auth0
url: /multifactor-authentication2
---

# Multifactor Authentication in Auth0

Multifactor Authentication (MFA) is a method of verifying a user's identity by requiring them to present more than one piece of identifying information. This method provides an additional layer of security, decreasing the likelihood of unauthorized access. The type of information required from the user is typically two or more of the following:

* **Knowledge**: Something the user knows (e.g. a password)
* **Possession**: Something the user has (e.g. a cell phone)
* **Inheritance**: Something the user is (e.g. a fingerprint or retina scan)

## Implementing MFA with Auth0

Auth0 supports the following methods of implementing MFA:

1. Using Guardian, Auth0's MFA application;
2. Using Auth0's built-in support for one-time password authentication services Google Authenticator and Duo Security.
3. Configuring rules for custom processes, such as Contextual MFA, which allow you to define the conditions that will trigger additional authentication challenges, such as changes in geographic location or logins from unrecognized devices.
4. Integration with a custom provider, such as **Yubikey**.

### MFA Using Auth0 Guardian

Guardian is Auth0's MFA application. It is a frictionless approach to implementing MFA for your apps, and provides a full MFA experience without requiring integration with third-party utilities.

You will find further instructions on enabling this feature [here](/multifactor-authentication/guardian/configuration.md).

### MFA Using Auth0 Built-In MFA Support

Auth0 provides built-in support for the following one-time password authentication services:

* Google Authenticator;
* Duo Security.

You may enable these options via the Auth0 Management Dashboard. To navigate to the appropriate configuration page, navigate to the Multifactor Auth page. You will see the following message, along with the link to the appropriate page:

> Auth0 also supports plugging in other multifactor providers. If you already have your own provider, click here to use a different provider.

#### MFA Using Google Authenticator

Google Authenticator allows you to request six- to eight-digit one-time use password as the second factor after your user has attempted to log in with their Google credentials.

You will find further instructions on enabling this feature [here](/multifactor-authentication/google-auth/index).

#### MFA Using Duo Security

Duo Security allows you to request either of the following as your second factor once the user has provided their initial login credentials:

* A user response to a push notification sent to the appropriate device;
* A passcode provided to the user via SMS.

You will find further instructions on enabling this feature [here](/multifactor-authentication/duo-security/index).

### MFA Using Custom Rules

You may configure [rules](/rules) for custom MFA processes, which allow you to define the conditions that will trigger additional authentication challenges, such as changes in geographic location or logins from unrecognized devices.

You will find [sample code snippets](/multifactor-authentication/custom/index) to assist you in building your rules here.

### MFA Using Custom Providers

For a detailed look at implementing MFA with **YubiKey**, see [Multifactor Authentication with YubiKey-NEO](/multifactor-authentication/yubikey).

Commit message:

Restructuring MFA pages (#1484)
* Restructuring MFA pages, adding Google Auth pages

Still need to finish work on Duo and Custom docs

* Restructuring MFA pages, adding Google Auth pages

Still need to finish work on Duo and Custom docs

* cleanup and add SMS config docs

* Adding Duo MFA docs

* MFA revisions

* fix url

* adding MFA mobile screenshots

* reduce screenshot size and other MFA cleanup

articles/multifactor-authentication/index2.md, after:

---
title: Multifactor Authentication in Auth0
url: /multifactor-authentication2
---

# Multifactor Authentication in Auth0

Multifactor Authentication (MFA) is a method of verifying a user's identity by requiring them to present more than one piece of identifying information. This method provides an additional layer of security, decreasing the likelihood of unauthorized access. The type of information required from the user is typically two or more of the following:

* **Knowledge**: Something the user knows (e.g. a password)
* **Possession**: Something the user has (e.g. a cell phone)
* **Inheritance**: Something the user is (e.g. a fingerprint or retina scan)

## Implementing MFA with Auth0

Auth0 supports the following methods of implementing MFA:

1. [Push Notifications (Auth0 Guardian)](/multifactor-authentication2#mfa-using-auth0-guardian) - Auth0's mobile application Guardian sends push notifications for MFA
2. [SMS](/multifactor-authentication2#mfa-with-sms) - Verification by sending a six-digit code via SMS
3. Support for one-time password authentication services [Google Authenticator](/multifactor-authentication2#mfa-using-google-authenticator) and [Duo Security](/multifactor-authentication2#mfa-using-duo-security).
4. [Configuring rules for custom processes](/multifactor-authentication2#mfa-using-custom-rules) - such as Contextual MFA, which allow you to define the conditions that will trigger additional authentication challenges, such as changes in geographic location or logins from unrecognized devices.
5. Using a [custom provider](/multifactor-authentication2#mfa-using-a-custom-provider), such as **Yubikey**.

## MFA using Push Notifications (Auth0 Guardian)

![](/media/articles/mfa/guardian-push.png)

Guardian is Auth0's MFA application. It is a frictionless approach to implementing MFA for your apps, and provides a full MFA experience without requiring integration with third-party utilities.

[Click here to learn more about enabling push notifications with Guardian](/multifactor-authentication/guardian)

## MFA with SMS

![](/media/articles/mfa/sms-screenshot.png)

Auth0 supports sending an SMS with a one-time password code to be used for another step of verification.

[Click here to learn more about enabling SMS](/multifactor-authentication/guardian/admin-guide#support-for-sms)

## MFA Using Google Authenticator

![](/media/articles/mfa/google-auth-screenshot.png)

Google Authenticator is a mobile app that generates 2-step verification codes. This creates a one-time use password that is used as the second factor after your user has attempted to log in with their Google credentials.

[Click here to learn more about enabling Google Authenticator](/multifactor-authentication/google-authenticator)

## MFA Using Duo Security

![](/media/articles/mfa/duo-screenshot.png)

Duo Security allows you to request either of the following as your second factor once the user has provided their initial login credentials:

* A user response to a push notification sent to the appropriate device
* A passcode provided to the user via SMS

[Click here to learn more about enabling Duo](/multifactor-authentication/duo)

## MFA Using Custom Rules

You may [configure rules](/rules) for custom MFA processes, which allow you to define the conditions that will trigger additional authentication challenges, such as changes in geographic location or logins from unrecognized devices.

[Click here for sample code snippets](/multifactor-authentication/custom) to assist you in building your rules here.

## MFA Using a Custom Provider

For a detailed look at implementing a custom MFA provider, see [Multifactor Authentication with YubiKey-NEO](/multifactor-authentication/yubikey) as an introduction.
