articles/extensions/custom-extensions.md, before:

# Creating and Installing a Custom Extension

Rather that using one of Auth0's provided extensions, you may choose to create your own.

## Creating a Custom Extension
To begin creating an your custom extension, please feel free to fork/clone any one of Auth0's extension repositories:

- [Auth0 Extension Boilerplate](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-extension-boilerplate)
- [Auth0 Extension with API Boilerplate](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-extension-boilerplate-with-api)
- [Auth0 Extension with React Boilerplate](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-extension-boilerplate-with-react)
- [Auth0 Extension with Hooks](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-extension-boilerplate-hooks)

Alternatively, you may following the _Development Instructions_ provided via the _New Extension_ window that appears when you click on the _+ CREATE EXTENSION_ button. To view the _Development Instructions_, navigate to the [Extensions](${uiURL}/#/extensions) page of the [Management Portal](${uiURL}). Click on the _+ CREATE EXTENSION_ button. On the popup displayed click on the _Check out this command line tool_ link. The _Development Instructions_ popup is displayed. These instructions allow you to create your own extension using the command line.

Extensions can also be installed using directly `wt-cli`. The command would look like the following:

```
wt create {file} --name {extensionName} --param owner=“{tenant}” --param version="1.0.0"
```

Learn more about `wt-cli` by visiting the [github repository](https://github.com/auth0/wt-cli) and the [documentation](https://webtask.io/docs/wt-cli).

## Installing a Custom Extension
Once you have created your own extension, you may install it manually via the [Extensions](${uiURL}/#/extensions) page of the [Auth0 Management Portal](${uiURL}).

Near the top right-hand side of the window, click the _+ CREATE EXTENSION_ button.

![](/media/articles/extensions/custom/create-extension.png)

In the _New Extension_ window that pops open, provide the GitHub URL to the repository that contains the files required by your extension.

![](/media/articles/extensions/custom/new-extension.png)

> At this time, only repositories hosted by GitHub may be used.

Alternatively, you may host your files elsewhere and simply provide a link to the `webtask.json` file in the box (e.g. `http://example.com/webtask.json`).

Once you have provided the link to your files and clicked _Continue_, you will be prompted to install the extension. If you would like to proceed, click _Install_.

![](/media/articles/extensions/custom/install-custom-ext.png)

## Configuring the Installed Extension

Under the _Installed Extensions_ tab you will find your newly-installed extension listed.

![](/media/articles/extensions/custom/installed-extensions.png)

Click on the link to obtain more information about the app. You will be prompted to authorize the extension's access to your Auth0 account.

![](/media/articles/extensions/custom/authorize-app.png)

After you've authorized the extension's access to your account, you will be presented with a [JSON Web Token](/tokens/).

![](/media/articles/extensions/custom/json-web-token.png)

## Extension Lifecycle

Let's have a look at what happens behind the scenes when installing and uninstalling custom extensions.

When the user clicks on _Install_, a Client is created for the extension with the scopes defined on the `webtask.json` and access is granted to APIv2 Resource Server.

For this `webtask.json`:

```json
{
  "name": "my-extension";
  "auth0": {
    "createClient": true,
    "scopes": "create:rules"
  }
}
```

The following Client would be created:

```javascript
Clients.create({
  name: 'my-extension'
}).then(function (client) {
  return Grants.create({
    audience:  'https://jcenturion.auth0.com/api/v2/',
    client_id: client.client_id,
    scope: "create:rules"
  }).then(function () {
    return addSecrets(wt, client, wtUrl);
  });
});
```

The installation dialog will warn the user that the extension will have access to certain scopes. In this case: `create:rules`.

![](/media/articles/extensions/custom/scopes-warning.png)

The webtask will be created with the secrets `AUTH0_CLIENT_ID` and `AUTH0_CLIENT_SECRET`.

After the webtask is created, `/.webtask/on-install` (`POST /onInstallUrl`) is called sending a [JWT](/jwt) for validating that Auth0-manage is the one calling it.

> The expected success status is `204`. Keep in mind that if the hooks fail, then the install (or uninstall) will fail as well.

Install and uninstall URLs are configurable through `webtask.json`.

```json
{
  "name": "my-extension";
  "auth0": {
    "scopes": "create:rules",
    "onInstallUrl": "/my-own-on-install" 
  }
}
```

When the user clicks on _Uninstall_, `/.webtask/on-uninstall` (`DELETE /onUninstallUrl`) is called, with a JWT for validating that Auth0-manage is the one calling it. Afterwards, the webtask and the client associated to the webtask are removed.

The JWT, the one being used for authenticating the calls to the hooks for both `/.webtask/on-install` and `/.webtask/on-uninstall`, looks like the following:

```json
{
  aud: {extensionUrl + hookPath},      
  iss: {auth0Domain},                 
  iat: timespan
}
```

Commit message:

Add text on wt update

articles/extensions/custom-extensions.md, after:

# Creating and Installing a Custom Extension

Rather that using one of Auth0's provided extensions, you may choose to create your own.

## Creating a Custom Extension
To begin creating an your custom extension, please feel free to fork/clone any one of Auth0's extension repositories:

- [Auth0 Extension Boilerplate](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-extension-boilerplate)
- [Auth0 Extension with API Boilerplate](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-extension-boilerplate-with-api)
- [Auth0 Extension with React Boilerplate](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-extension-boilerplate-with-react)
- [Auth0 Extension with Hooks](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-extension-boilerplate-hooks)

Alternatively, you may follow the _Development Instructions_ provided via the _New Extension_ window that appears when you click on the _+ CREATE EXTENSION_ button. To view the _Development Instructions_, navigate to the [Extensions](${uiURL}/#/extensions) page of the [Management Portal](${uiURL}). Click on the _+ CREATE EXTENSION_ button. On the popup displayed click on the _Check out this command line tool_ link. The _Development Instructions_ popup is displayed. These instructions allow you to create your own extension using the command line.

Extensions can also be installed using directly `wt-cli`. The command would look like the following:

```
wt create {file} --name {extensionName} --param owner=“{tenant}” --param version="1.0.0"
```

Once the extension is installed you can make updates using the following:

```
wt update {extensionName} {file} -p {tenant}
```

Learn more about `wt-cli` by visiting the [documentation](https://webtask.io/docs/wt-cli) and the [github repository](https://github.com/auth0/wt-cli).

## Installing a Custom Extension
Once you have created your own extension, you may install it manually via the [Extensions](${uiURL}/#/extensions) page of the [Auth0 Management Portal](${uiURL}).

Near the top right-hand side of the window, click the _+ CREATE EXTENSION_ button.

![](/media/articles/extensions/custom/create-extension.png)

In the _New Extension_ window that pops open, provide the GitHub URL to the repository that contains the files required by your extension.

![](/media/articles/extensions/custom/new-extension.png)

> At this time, only repositories hosted by GitHub may be used.

Alternatively, you may host your files elsewhere and simply provide a link to the `webtask.json` file in the box (e.g. `http://example.com/webtask.json`).

Once you have provided the link to your files and clicked _Continue_, you will be prompted to install the extension. If you would like to proceed, click _Install_.

![](/media/articles/extensions/custom/install-custom-ext.png)

## Configuring the Installed Extension

Under the _Installed Extensions_ tab you will find your newly-installed extension listed.

![](/media/articles/extensions/custom/installed-extensions.png)

Click on the link to obtain more information about the app. You will be prompted to authorize the extension's access to your Auth0 account.

![](/media/articles/extensions/custom/authorize-app.png)

After you've authorized the extension's access to your account, you will be presented with a [JSON Web Token](/tokens/).

![](/media/articles/extensions/custom/json-web-token.png)

## Extension Lifecycle

Let's have a look at what happens behind the scenes when installing and uninstalling custom extensions.

When the user clicks on _Install_, a Client is created for the extension with the scopes defined on the `webtask.json` and access is granted to APIv2 Resource Server.

For this `webtask.json`:

```json
{
  "name": "my-extension";
  "auth0": {
    "createClient": true,
    "scopes": "create:rules"
  }
}
```

The following Client would be created:

```javascript
Clients.create({
  name: 'my-extension'
}).then(function (client) {
  return Grants.create({
    audience:  'https://jcenturion.auth0.com/api/v2/',
    client_id: client.client_id,
    scope: "create:rules"
  }).then(function () {
    return addSecrets(wt, client, wtUrl);
  });
});
```

The installation dialog will warn the user that the extension will have access to certain scopes. In this case: `create:rules`.

![](/media/articles/extensions/custom/scopes-warning.png)

The webtask will be created with the secrets `AUTH0_CLIENT_ID` and `AUTH0_CLIENT_SECRET`.

After the webtask is created, `/.webtask/on-install` (`POST /onInstallUrl`) is called sending a [JWT](/jwt) for validating that Auth0-manage is the one calling it.

> The expected success status is `204`. Keep in mind that if the hooks fail, then the install (or uninstall) will fail as well.

Install and uninstall URLs are configurable through `webtask.json`.

```json
{
  "name": "my-extension";
  "auth0": {
    "scopes": "create:rules",
    "onInstallUrl": "/my-own-on-install" 
  }
}
```

When the user clicks on _Uninstall_, `/.webtask/on-uninstall` (`DELETE /onUninstallUrl`) is called, with a JWT for validating that Auth0-manage is the one calling it. Afterwards, the webtask and the client associated to the webtask are removed.

The JWT, the one being used for authenticating the calls to the hooks for both `/.webtask/on-install` and `/.webtask/on-uninstall`, looks like the following:

```json
{
  aud: {extensionUrl + hookPath},      
  iss: {auth0Domain},                 
  iat: timespan
}
```
