articles/extensions/using-provided-extensions.md, before:

# Using Auth0's Provided Extensions

The following apps/jobs are provided via the Extensions page of the Management Portal. They have not, however, been fully installed. To use one or more of the following apps, you must provide the required configuration information and finish installing the extensions.

![](/media/articles/extensions/auth0-provided-extensions.png)

## Provided Apps/Jobs:
- [Custom Social Applications](/extensions/custom-social-extensions): social connection management
- [Auth0 Management API Webhooks](/extensions/management-api-webhooks): webhooks definition for the Auth0 Management API; goes through the audit logs and calls the appropriate webhook for specific events
- [Auth0 AD/LDAP Connector Health Monitor](/extensions/adldap-connector): exposes endpoint for AD/LDAP connections monitoring
- [Auth0 Logs to Application Insight](/extensions/application-insight): exports Auth0 logs to Application Insights
- [Auth0 Logs to Azure Blob Storage](/extensions/azure-blob-storage): exports Auth0 logs to Azure Blob Storage
- [Auth0 Authentication API Webhooks](/extensions/authentication-api-webhooks): webhooks definition for the Auth0 Authentication API; goes through the audit logs and calls the appropriate webhook for specific events
- [Auth0 Logs to Loggly](/extensions/loggly): exports Auth0 logs to Loggly
- [Auth0 Logs to Papertrail](/extensions/papertrail): exports Auth0 logs to Papertrail

Commit message:

Descriptions for extensions and i18n
Ongoing as part of:
https://trello.com/c/fseFQAic/130-add-descriptions-to-all-markdown-files

articles/extensions/using-provided-extensions.md, after:

---
description: Links and information on using Auth0's provided extensions.
---

# Using Auth0's Provided Extensions

The following apps/jobs are provided via the Extensions page of the Management Portal. They have not, however, been fully installed. To use one or more of the following apps, you must provide the required configuration information and finish installing the extensions.

![](/media/articles/extensions/auth0-provided-extensions.png)

## Provided Apps/Jobs:
- [Custom Social Applications](/extensions/custom-social-extensions): social connection management
- [Auth0 Management API Webhooks](/extensions/management-api-webhooks): webhooks definition for the Auth0 Management API; goes through the audit logs and calls the appropriate webhook for specific events
- [Auth0 AD/LDAP Connector Health Monitor](/extensions/adldap-connector): exposes endpoint for AD/LDAP connections monitoring
- [Auth0 Logs to Application Insight](/extensions/application-insight): exports Auth0 logs to Application Insights
- [Auth0 Logs to Azure Blob Storage](/extensions/azure-blob-storage): exports Auth0 logs to Azure Blob Storage
- [Auth0 Authentication API Webhooks](/extensions/authentication-api-webhooks): webhooks definition for the Auth0 Authentication API; goes through the audit logs and calls the appropriate webhook for specific events
- [Auth0 Logs to Loggly](/extensions/loggly): exports Auth0 logs to Loggly
- [Auth0 Logs to Papertrail](/extensions/papertrail): exports Auth0 logs to Papertrail
