---
section: libraries
description: Lock v11 documentation on setting authentication parameters.
tags:
  - libraries
  - lock
---
# Lock Authentication Parameters

You can send parameters when starting a login by adding them to the options object. The example below adds a `state` parameter with a value equal to `'foo'`.

```js
var options = {
  auth: {
    params: {state: 'foo'},
  }
};
```

The following parameters are supported: `access_token`, `scope`, `protocol`, `device`, `request_id`, `nonce` and `state`.

::: note
This would be analogous to triggering the login with `https://${account.namespace}/authorize?state=foo&...`.
:::

## Supported parameters

### scope {string}

```js
var options = {
  auth: {
    params: {scope: 'openid email user_metadata app_metadata picture'},
  }
};
```

There are different values supported for scope. Keep in mind that JWTs are sent on every API request, so it is desirable to keep them as small as possible.

The default `scope` value in Lock v11 is `openid profile email`. This minimum scope value is required to make the **Last time you logged in with** feature work correctly.

::: panel Running Lock Locally
If you don't specify at least the above scope when initializing Lock, and you are running your website from `http://localhost` or `http://127.0.0.1`, you will get the following error in the browser console:

`Consent required. When using getSSOData, the user has to be authenticated with the following scope: openid profile email`

That will not happen when you run your application in production or if you specify the `openid profile email` scope. You can read more about this in the [User consent and third-party applications](/api-auth/user-consent#skipping-consent-for-first-party-applications) document.
:::

For more information about scopes, see the [scopes documentation page](/scopes).

#### Example: retrieve a token

In Lock v11, if you wish to receive a token with the ability to fetch the user's profile data, you should add the `scope` parameter.

```js
var options = {
  auth: {
    params: {
        scope: 'openid profile'
    }
  }
};
```

::: note
There is also a `connectionScopes` configuration option for Lock v11, which allows you to specify scopes on any specific connection. This will be useful if you want to initially start with a set of scopes (defined on the dashboard), but later on request additional permissions or attributes from a specific connection. Read more about it on the [Lock Configuration Options](/libraries/lock/v11/configuration#connectionscopes-object-) page.
:::

### state {string}

The `state` parameter is an arbitrary state value that will be mantained across redirects. It is useful to mitigate [XSRF attacks](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-site_request_forgery) and for any contextual information, [such as a return url](/tutorials/redirecting-users), that you might need after the authentication process is finished. If a custom state parameter is not provided, Lock will automatically generate one.

[Click here to learn more about how to send/receive the state parameter.](/protocols/oauth-state)

### nonce {string}

The `nonce` parameter is used to help prevent replay attacks, and will be automatically generated by Lock if a custom value is not provided.
