articles/api/postman.md, before:

---
section: apis
---

# Using the Auth0 API with our Postman Collections

## Installing the Collections

> Before continuing, please ensure that you are signed into your Auth0 account

To install the Postman Collection you will need to have either the [Postman Chrome App](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/postman/fhbjgbiflinjbdggehcddcbncdddomop) or the [Postman Mac App](https://www.getpostman.com/app/postman-osx-beta) installed.

Next, head over to our new [API Landing Page](/api/info), and install the Collection you want to use by clicking on the relevant "Run in Postman" button.

![](/media/articles/api/postman/auth0-api-landing.png)

At this point Postman will prompt you whether you want to open the Collection in the Mac App or the Chrome App. Select the application you have installed.

![](/media/articles/api/postman/postman-open-with-dialog.png)

At this point we will Postman will do 2 things:

1. It will install the relevant Auth0 Collection
2. It will create an environment for you based on the tenant account you are signed into Auth0 with.

![](/media/articles/api/postman/collection-post-install.png)

Our API Collections are organized into folders which categorizes the various API calls according to category, so for example, for the Management API you will find all the Users methods under the **Users** folder.

If you want to execute an API call, simply browse to the API call in the Sidebar and select it. The information for the API call will appear in the Request Builder. You can click on the **Send** button to execute the request.

![](/media/articles/api/postman/api-call-selected.png)

## Generating a token for the Management API

For the Management API you will need a token to execute any of the API methods. To generate a token you can use the existing Token Builder which is part of the [Management API Explorer](/api/v2). In the API Explorer, browse to the API call you want to make and ensure that the required scopes for that API call is selected. Copy the token which was generated.

![](/media/articles/api/postman/generate-token.png)

The next step is to set the value for the token in Postman. All API calls in the Postman collection already has an Authorization Header with a Bearer Token with the value of a variable called `auth0_token` defined, so all you need to do is set the value for the variable in your environment.

From the enviromnents menu in Postman, select the **Manage Environments** option

![](/media/articles/api/postman/environments-menu.png)

Select the environment you want to manage

![](/media/articles/api/postman/manage-environments.png)

Add a variable called `auth0_token` with the value of the token generated by the API Explorer

![](/media/articles/api/postman/add-token-variable.png)

Save the settings and close the environments dialog. Now you can go back to Request Builder and execute the API call:

![](/media/articles/api/postman/execute-api-method.png)

## A word about storing tokens in Postman variables

We do need to point out that storing tokens in Postman as environment variables could pose a potential security risk.  If you are signed in to the Postman application it will automatically try and [synchronize some entities such as Collections and Environments with the Postman servers](https://www.getpostman.com/docs/sync_overview). This means that a token, which could allow someone else to gain access to your Management API, is leaving the privacy of your computer and uploaded Postman's servers.

It also has to be said that Postman has taken measures to ensure that this information is encrypted, and indeed encourages users to store this sort of information in Environment Variables. You can [read more about this on their website](https://www.getpostman.com/docs/security).

If you feel that this still poses too much of a risk for you, then you will need to sign out of Postman to ensure that environment variables are not synchronized.

Commit message:

Update Postman collections and instructions

articles/api/postman.md, after:

---
section: apis
---

# Using the Auth0 API with our Postman Collections

## Installing the Collections

To install the Postman Collection you will need to have installed the Postman App for Windows, Mac or Chrome. You can download any of these from the [Postman Apps page](https://www.getpostman.com/apps).

Next, head over to our new [API Landing Page](/api/info), and install the Collection you want to use by clicking on the relevant "Run in Postman" button.

![](/media/articles/api/postman/auth0-api-landing.png)

Postman will prompt whether you want to open the Collection in Postman for Chrome or Postman for Windows / Mac. Select the application you have installed.

![](/media/articles/api/postman/postman-open-with-dialog.png)

Once you have made a selection, the selected Postman application will be opened and the collection will be imported.

![](/media/articles/api/postman/collection-post-install.png)

Our API Collections are organized into folders which categorizes the various API calls according to category, so for example, for the Management API you will find all the Users methods under the **Users** folder.

## Configuring the Postman Environment

The Auth0 Postman collections make use of environment variables to customize the requests being sent. More information on managing Postman environments can be found at [Setting up an environment with variables](https://www.getpostman.com/docs/environments)

You will need to create an environment and configure the following variables:

* `auth0_domain`: Should contain the domain for your Auth0 tenant, e.g. **jerrie.auth0.com**.
* `auth0_token`: Should contain the token needed when making calls to the Management API, and is therefore only required when using the Management API collection. More information on how to generate a token can be found at [The Auth0 Management APIv2 Token](https://auth0.com/docs/api/management/v2/tokens) 

In the screenshot below you can see a Postman environment configured with both the `auth0_domain` and `auth0_token` variables defined:

![](/media/articles/api/postman/environment-configured.png)

## Executing a request

Once the environment is configured, you can follow theses steps to execute an Auth0 API method:

1. Select the environment you want to work with
2. Select the relevant API method in the collection folder
3. Click the send button

![](/media/articles/api/postman/execute-api-method.png)

You man also optionally have to configure query parameters or the JSON method body, depending on the API call. For more information please refer to the [Sending Requests](https://www.getpostman.com/docs/requests) document on the Postman website.

## A word about storing tokens in Postman variables

We do need to point out that storing tokens in Postman as environment variables could pose a potential security risk.  If you are signed in to the Postman application it will automatically try and [synchronize some entities such as Collections and Environments with the Postman servers](https://www.getpostman.com/docs/sync_overview). This means that a token, which could allow someone else to gain access to your Management API, is leaving the privacy of your computer and uploaded Postman's servers.

It also has to be said that Postman has taken measures to ensure that this information is encrypted, and indeed encourages users to store this sort of information in Environment Variables. You can [read more about this on their website](https://www.getpostman.com/docs/security).

If you feel that this still poses too much of a risk for you, then you will need to sign out of Postman to ensure that environment variables are not synchronized.
