articles/client-platforms/vanillajs/10-customizing-lock.md, before:

---
title: Customizing Lock
description: This tutorial will show you how to customize Lock.
---

<%= include('../../_includes/_package', {
  githubUrl: 'https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-javascript-spa',
  pkgOrg: 'auth0-samples',
  pkgRepo: 'auth0-javascript-spa',
  pkgBranch: 'master',
  pkgPath: '10-Customizing-Lock',
  pkgFilePath: null,
  pkgType: 'js'
}) %>

Using Lock is easy, but you may want to customize your login UI. There are several [customization](/libraries/lock/v10/customization) options available. The aspects explained here are not the only customizations available.

## Lock Options

Some UI customizations can be done via the `options` parameter when creating a `Lock` instance.

### Theme Options

You can set custom theme properties, such as a different logo or primary color, by adding a `theme` property with custom values:

```javascript
var lock = new Auth0Lock('<%= account.clientId %>', '<%= account.namespace %>', {
  theme: {
    logo: "test-icon.png",
    primaryColor: "#b81b1c"
  }
});
```

For more information, see [Theming Options](/libraries/lock/v10/ui-customization).

### Language Dictionary Specification

You can also customize the text that `Lock` will display with the `languageDictionary` option parameter:

```javascript
var lock = new Auth0Lock('<%= account.clientId %>', '<%= account.namespace %>', {
  languageDictionary: {
    title: "My Company"
  }
});
```

For more information, see [Language Dictionary Specification](/libraries/lock/v10/i18n).

## Summary

In this guide, we saw how to customize the default Auth0's login window appearance and how to change the form's title by using Auth0Lock's languageDictionary property.

Commit message:

setup client-platforms for default article

articles/client-platforms/vanillajs/10-customizing-lock.md, after:

---
title: Customizing Lock
description: This tutorial demonstrates how to customize the Lock widget
---

<%= include('../../_includes/_package', {
  githubUrl: 'https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-javascript-spa',
  pkgOrg: 'auth0-samples',
  pkgRepo: 'auth0-javascript-spa',
  pkgBranch: 'master',
  pkgPath: '10-Customizing-Lock',
  pkgFilePath: null,
  pkgType: 'js'
}) %>

Using Lock is easy, but you may want to customize your login UI. For that, there are several [customization options](/libraries/lock/v10/customization) available.

## Lock Options

Some UI customization can be done via the `options` parameter when creating a `Auth0Lock` instance.

### Theme Options

You can set custom theme properties, such as a different logo or primary color, by adding a `theme` property with custom values.

```js
// app.js

var lock = new Auth0Lock('<%= account.clientId %>', '<%= account.namespace %>', {
  theme: {
    logo: "test-icon.png",
    primaryColor: "#b81b1c"
  }
});
```

For more information, see the [theming options](/libraries/lock/v10/ui-customization).

### Language Dictionary Specification

You can also customize the text that Lock will display with the `languageDictionary` option parameter.

```js
// app.js

var lock = new Auth0Lock('<%= account.clientId %>', '<%= account.namespace %>', {
  languageDictionary: {
    title: "My Company"
  }
});
```

For more information, see [language dictionary specification](/libraries/lock/v10/i18n).
