STYLEGUIDE.md, before:

# Auth0 Style Guide #

This style guide will cover the terminology and content specific to Auth0, along with some comments on common writing issues. For general software-industry styles and terminology, see the [Microsoft Manual of Style](https://eucalyptus.atlassian.net/wiki/download/attachments/76611622/microsoft_manual_of_style_fourth_edition.pdf?version=2&modificationDate=1424379604164&api=v2).

## Voice

It is important to speak to the reader directly, to engage in a conversation with the reader. This is the most effective way to communicate. In order to do this, address the reader as "you." Do not use such indirect language as "one" or other passive ways of addressing the user.

Active voice is extremely important. It's more than style. When you use passive voice, it can actually confuse or mislead the reader. Avoid constructions such as "the function was called" or  "the password was entered." Instead, say exactly who or what issued the call or entered the password. Never leave the reader with uncertainty about cause and effect or who did what.

Subheads are not intended to make statements. Therefore, make sure to repeat in the body text anything you say in a subhead. Do not use a subhead to introduce a new idea, and do not force the user to read the subhead to understand the text that follows.

Use of gerunds makes a statement more passive. To discuss actions the user must take, use the imperative form, not the gerund. For example, in a section about setting up SSH keys in which you are walking the user through the process, title the subhead "Set up Your SSH Keys" rather than "Setting up Your SSH Keys."

Abbreviations should be avoided. Avoid the use of e.g., for example. Instead, use "for example." The idea is to prevent the reader from having to stop and think about what you mean. It may seem like it just takes a second, but it is similar to tuning your web site performance. You want your site to perform quickly and smoothly. Similarly, you want your content to flow smoothly, uninterrupted by questions the reader must ask himself regarding your intentions.

The use of should versus must and other ambivalent statements must be avoided. If something is required, be definite about it and tell the user it "must" be performed.

## Compound words

Compound words may be used in three forms: one word, two words, and hyphenated. As an example, let's look at runtime.
When referring to something that happens at run time, the proper format is two words. When referring to the runtime engine that runs or translates the code, the proper format is a single word. Finally, when using run time as an adjective, such as run-time execution, the proper format is the hyphenated form.

Other commonly encountered compound words include server side and client side. The same rules apply. When you write code for the client side, you use two words. When you write client-side code, because client-side is an adjective here, use the hyphenated form. Client side and server side are never single words (clientside).

## Punctuation

<b>Colons</b>
Colons are useful when you are directly referring to an example, such as "Here is the relevant code:"

<b>Adjectives</b>
Hyphens are used between adjectives and the verb they modify if and only if the adjective does not end in "ly." Therefore, "commonly used adjectives" is not hyphenated, while "oft-quoted phrase" is.

<b>Punctuation and quotes</b>
Punctuation belongs inside quotation marks in US American English, but not British English. Therefore, if you incorporate a quote within or at the end of a sentence, such as "You must end quotations with periods inside the quotation marks," you would construct the quotation as you see here, with the comma inside the quotation marks. If this becomes an issue when quoting code because the code does not include the punctuation mark in question, do not place the punctuation mark inside the quotes.

## Formatting
Do not use block quote style for notes or warnings. It makes the note or warning too prominent.

Commit message:

Update styleguide to introduce the avoidance of contractions.

STYLEGUIDE.md, after:

# Auth0 Style Guide #

This style guide will cover the terminology and content specific to Auth0, along with some comments on common writing issues. For general software-industry styles and terminology, see the [Microsoft Manual of Style](https://eucalyptus.atlassian.net/wiki/download/attachments/76611622/microsoft_manual_of_style_fourth_edition.pdf?version=2&modificationDate=1424379604164&api=v2).

## Voice

It is important to speak to the reader directly, to engage in a conversation with the reader. This is the most effective way to communicate. In order to do this, address the reader as "you." Do not use such indirect language as "one" or other passive ways of addressing the user.

Active voice is extremely important. It's more than style. When you use passive voice, it can actually confuse or mislead the reader. Avoid constructions such as "the function was called" or  "the password was entered." Instead, say exactly who or what issued the call or entered the password. Never leave the reader with uncertainty about cause and effect or who did what.

Subheads are not intended to make statements. Therefore, make sure to repeat in the body text anything you say in a subhead. Do not use a subhead to introduce a new idea, and do not force the user to read the subhead to understand the text that follows.

Use of gerunds makes a statement more passive. To discuss actions the user must take, use the imperative form, not the gerund. For example, in a section about setting up SSH keys in which you are walking the user through the process, title the subhead "Set up Your SSH Keys" rather than "Setting up Your SSH Keys."

Abbreviations should be avoided. Avoid the use of e.g., for example. Instead, use "for example." The idea is to prevent the reader from having to stop and think about what you mean. It may seem like it just takes a second, but it is similar to tuning your web site performance. You want your site to perform quickly and smoothly. Similarly, you want your content to flow smoothly, uninterrupted by questions the reader must ask himself regarding your intentions.

Avoid contractions wherever possible. Contractions are generally used in spoken language and therefore carries a sense of informality or even laziness. 

The use of should versus must and other ambivalent statements must be avoided. If something is required, be definite about it and tell the user it "must" be performed.

## Compound words

Compound words may be used in three forms: one word, two words, and hyphenated. As an example, let's look at runtime.
When referring to something that happens at run time, the proper format is two words. When referring to the runtime engine that runs or translates the code, the proper format is a single word. Finally, when using run time as an adjective, such as run-time execution, the proper format is the hyphenated form.

Other commonly encountered compound words include server side and client side. The same rules apply. When you write code for the client side, you use two words. When you write client-side code, because client-side is an adjective here, use the hyphenated form. Client side and server side are never single words (clientside).

## Punctuation

<b>Colons</b>
Colons are useful when you are directly referring to an example, such as "Here is the relevant code:"

<b>Adjectives</b>
Hyphens are used between adjectives and the verb they modify if and only if the adjective does not end in "ly." Therefore, "commonly used adjectives" is not hyphenated, while "oft-quoted phrase" is.

<b>Punctuation and quotes</b>
Punctuation belongs inside quotation marks in US American English, but not British English. Therefore, if you incorporate a quote within or at the end of a sentence, such as "You must end quotations with periods inside the quotation marks," you would construct the quotation as you see here, with the comma inside the quotation marks. If this becomes an issue when quoting code because the code does not include the punctuation mark in question, do not place the punctuation mark inside the quotes.

## Formatting
Do not use block quote style for notes or warnings. This makes the note or warning too prominent.
