In this scenario your Auth0 tenant can provide an OAuth2 [Access Token](/tokens/concepts/access-tokens), typically expressed as a [JWT](/tokens/concepts/jwts), which [can be used by your API to restrict access to certain parties](/api-auth). In addition, Auth0 provides support for what is notionally described as both [First-Party and Third-Party Applications](/applications/concepts/app-types-first-third-party).

Acting as the authorization server, and with the consent of the user (the resource owner), your Auth0 tenant can be used to provide an Access Token - typically expressed as a [JWT](/tokens/concepts/jwts) - to an application (client) so that it can access a protected resources hosted by a resource server on behalf of the resource owner. The issued Access Token is typically passed as the Bearer token in the HTTP Authorization header sent to an API.

Whether you have a single API, or perhaps a suite of logically related [microservice APIs](/api-auth/tutorials/represent-multiple-apis), you can leverage the Access Tokens that Auth0 provides in order to secure access to your service(s). Though relatively easy to set this up in the [Auth0 Dashboard](/apis) or through the [Auth0 Management API](/api/management/v2#!/Resource_Servers/post_resource_servers), it's important to review the different application scenarios and API layouts to determine the best architecture for your system.

::: note
OAuth2 Access Tokens are primarily designed for use in securing public facing APIs; when expressed as a JWT, an Access Token is a self contained entity which can be verfied without the need to make any additional 3rd party API call. If your APIs do not fall into this category - i.e they are part of an application itself (as in only called by that application) or are sat behing your firewall - then protecting them with tokens may well be overkill, and your existing cookie based (et al) workflow may well suffice.
:::

OAuth2 was designed specifically with third-party access in mind, For example, a scenario might be that a user (resource owner) wants to use an application (a client) that does not belong to the same organization as the service that provides the user's data (the reseource server). In this case, when the application needs to access data that the user owns, it redirects to the organization where the user’s data resides, which in turn authenticates the user and then prompts the user to give the application permission to access their data. This prompting for permission is referred to as providing *[consent](/api-auth/user-consent)* and is a large part of what providing support for [third party applications](/scopes/current/api-scopes#example-an-api-called-by-a-third-party-application) entails. If you are planning to integrate third-party applications, then it's important you [mark them as third-party](/api-auth/user-consent) early on so that Auth0 will handle prompting for user consent.

On the other hand, if your organization *owns* the application(s), the user data itself and the API(s) through which that data is accessed, then consent is not typically required as the interactions are all [first-party](/scopes/current/api-scopes#example-an-api-called-by-a-first-party-application). If you're only creating first-party applications, then you can ensure that you are not presenting your users with any unnecessary consent screen(s) by [allowing user consent to be skipped](/apis#api-settings) as part of any resource service definition.

::: warning
Though you can configure your applications to be first-party and subsequently configure your APIs to allow first-party clients to ignore consent, if you are using `localhost` then Auth0 cannot verify that the application is truly a first-party app so your users will be prompted for consent anyway. To work around this constraint, when testing on your local machine during development, create a [fake local hostname and use that instead](https://community.auth0.com/t/how-do-i-skip-the-consent-page-for-my-api-authorization-flow/6035).
:::

Alternatively, you may have data relating to a user for which additional [functionality is provided](/scopes/current/api-scopes#example-an-api-called-by-a-back-end-service) and for which explicit user consent cannot be obtained (i.e. there is no authenticated user who can provide it). In this scenario, a [list of applications for which Client Credentials grant is enabled](docs/flows/concepts/client-credentials) can be defined. 

### Access Token claims

As is the case with ID Tokens, you can [add custom claims to Access Tokens](/scopes/current/sample-use-cases#add-custom-claims-to-a-token) using Auth0 Rule extensibility. Once added, your API can then verify an Access Token for the necessary claims and either allow or prevent access to certain functionality as required. 

::: panel Best Practice
When you are considering adding custom claims, we recommend that you store any access control data you may need to include within claims as part of the user's [`app_metadata`](/users/concepts/overview-user-metadata). Firstly, this prevents you from needing to call an external API to fetch the data, which can negatively impact performance and scalability. Secondly `app_metadata` **cannot** be modified by a user - so the user cannot directly circumvent any access control restrictions by modifying their own metadata. Also remember to check out our [metadata best practices](architecture-scenarios/implementation/${platform}/${platform}-profile-mgmt#metadata) guidance too.
:::

### Access Token scopes

[OAuth2 Scopes](/scopes/current/api-scopes) are typically used as the mechanism by which an API can determine what actions can be performed on behalf of a user. Scopes can be added on a per API basis to [define specifc access permissions](/dashboard/guides/apis/add-permissions-apis) in the Auth0 Dashboard or through the Auth0 Management API). Scopes can also be manipulated via Auth0 extensibility (e.g. via a Rule, as in this [example](/architecture-scenarios/spa-api/part-2#create-a-rule-to-validate-token-scopes)). The scopes an application requests for accessing an API should depend on what functionality the application needs the user to give permission for the application to use. Once the requested scopes are authorized, they will be returned in the Access Token which can be subsequently verified by said [API](/tokens/guides/validate-access-tokens). A good example of this is when you log in to an application that is using a social provider for login: the social provider API requires that the application specifies whether the user will want the application to post items on your behalf. This allows the user to accept or deny this request. This example demonstrates how the user is delegating permission to the application - which is different than the API restricting access based on a user's <dfn data-key="role">role</dfn>, and should be handled differently.

::: panel Best Practice
Even though you have the ability to fully manipulate Access Token Scopes via Auth0 extensibility, as a security best practice you should only remove scopes which are not authorized and refrain from adding scopes that were not requested.
:::

Though scopes are often used as a way to enforce access permissions for a user, there are situations where it can become [tricky when you use them in this manner](https://auth0.com/blog/on-the-nature-of-oauth2-scopes/). We therefore recommend that you use scopes for their intended purpose (i.e. delegating permission to an application) and use [custom claims](#access-token-claims) for your role-based or other access control scenarios.
