articles/architecture-scenarios/business/b2c.md, before:

---
order: 01
title: B2C
image: /docs/media/articles/architecture-scenarios/b2c.png
extract: Usually eCommerce or SAAS applications which have end users (consumers) as customers and the application typically used OpenID Connect as a protocol to communicate with Auth0.
---

# B2C

![](/media/articles/architecture-scenarios/b2c.png)

Usually eCommerce or SAAS applications which have end users (consumers) as customers and the application typically used OpenID Connect as a protocol to communicate with Auth0.

Users are created and stored with a Database connection (username/password) which they can then later use to log in, or alternatively users can use a social connection such as Facebook, Twitter, Google, etc to log in. Passwordless connections are also common with B2C.

## Read More

The following is a list of articles on this website which will help you to implement this scenario:

* [Lock](https://auth0.com/lock)
* [Identity Protocols supported by Auth0](/protocols)
* [Integrating a Web App with Auth0](/oauth-web-protocol)
* [Database Identity Providers](/connections/database)
* [Import users to Auth0](/connections/database/migrating)
* [Social Login](https://auth0.com/learn/social-login/)
* [Passwordless](/connections/passwordless)

Commit message:

Adding more descriptions
Adds descriptions to:
architecture-scenarios
cms
connector
dev-centers
error-pages

Ongoing work as part of:
https://trello.com/c/fseFQAic/130-add-descriptions-to-all-markdown-files

articles/architecture-scenarios/business/b2c.md, after:

---
order: 01
title: B2C
image: /docs/media/articles/architecture-scenarios/b2c.png
extract: Usually eCommerce or SAAS applications which have end users (consumers) as customers and the application typically used OpenID Connect as a protocol to communicate with Auth0.
description: Explains the architecture scenario B2C with an eCommerce or SAAS application.
---

# B2C

![](/media/articles/architecture-scenarios/b2c.png)

Usually eCommerce or SAAS applications which have end users (consumers) as customers and the application typically used OpenID Connect as a protocol to communicate with Auth0.

Users are created and stored with a Database connection (username/password) which they can then later use to log in, or alternatively users can use a social connection such as Facebook, Twitter, Google, etc to log in. Passwordless connections are also common with B2C.

## Read More

The following is a list of articles on this website which will help you to implement this scenario:

* [Lock](https://auth0.com/lock)
* [Identity Protocols supported by Auth0](/protocols)
* [Integrating a Web App with Auth0](/oauth-web-protocol)
* [Database Identity Providers](/connections/database)
* [Import users to Auth0](/connections/database/migrating)
* [Social Login](https://auth0.com/learn/social-login/)
* [Passwordless](/connections/passwordless)
