articles/server-platforms/aspnet-owin/00-intro.md, before:

---
title: Introduction
name: Introduction to the quickstart guide and configuring the environment
description: This quickstart guide will walk you through the various tasks related to integrating Auth0 into your ASP.NET MVC 5 application.
budicon: 715
---

This quickstart guide will walk you through the various tasks related to integrating Auth0 into your ASP.NET MVC 5 application.



## Sample Projects

If you would like to follow along with this quickstart, you can download a blank starter [seed project](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-aspnet-owin-mvc-sample/tree/master/00-Starter-Seed). This is just a regular ASP.NET MVC application with a home page and a `web.config` file where you can configure the various Auth0-related settings for your application.

Each of the steps in this guide contains a sample project download that shows the completion of the step. These projects can also be downloaded from the [sample repository](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-aspnet-owin-mvc-sample) where you can find the final result for each step in the relevant folder.

## Create an Application

<%= include('../../_includes/_new_app') %>

![App Dashboard](/media/articles/angularjs/app_dashboard.png)

<%= include('_includes/_setup') %>

Commit message:

Update system requirements for ASP.NET projects

articles/server-platforms/aspnet-owin/00-intro.md, after:

---
title: Introduction
name: Introduction to the quickstart guide and configuring the environment
description: This quickstart guide will walk you through the various tasks related to integrating Auth0 into your ASP.NET MVC 5 application.
budicon: 715
---

::: panel-info System Requirements
This tutorial and seed project have been tested with the following:

* Microsoft Visual Studio 2015 Update 3
* Auth0-ASPNET-Owin NuGet Package v1.0.4
:::

This quickstart guide will walk you through the various tasks related to integrating Auth0 into your ASP.NET MVC 5 application.

## Sample Projects

If you would like to follow along with this quickstart, you can download a blank starter [seed project](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-aspnet-owin-mvc-sample/tree/master/00-Starter-Seed). This is just a regular ASP.NET MVC application with a home page and a `web.config` file where you can configure the various Auth0-related settings for your application.

Each of the steps in this guide contains a sample project download that shows the completion of the step. These projects can also be downloaded from the [sample repository](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-aspnet-owin-mvc-sample) where you can find the final result for each step in the relevant folder.

## Create an Application

<%= include('../../_includes/_new_app') %>

![App Dashboard](/media/articles/angularjs/app_dashboard.png)

<%= include('_includes/_setup') %>
