articles/integrations/aws-api-gateway/part-3.md, before:

---
title: Amazon API Gateway Tutorial - Building the Client App
description: Step 3 of Amazon API Gateway Tutorial
---

# AWS API Gateway Tutorial
## Step 3 - Building the Client Application
[Prev](/integrations/aws-api-gateway/part-2) ----- [Next](/integrations/aws-api-gateway/part-4)

In this step, you will build a single page, serverless client application using the AngularJS framework that you will serve out of an AWS S3 bucket configured to act as a static website.

### 1. Setting Up Your Sample Application

For a simple starter app, download this seed project, which comes pre-configured with your account settings.

```
<%= include('../../_includes/_package', {
  pkgRepo: 'auth0-aws',
  pkgBranch: 'master',
  pkgPath: 'examples/api-gateway/client',
  pkgFilePath: null,
  pkgType: 'js'
}) %>
```

Copy the contents of this seed project to a local folder called `pets`, which you will be using for the remainder of this tutorial.

> Be sure that you have [created the AWS S3 bucket that you have configured to act as a static website](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/gettingstarted/latest/swh/website-hosting-intro.html). During the setup process, copy the contents of the `pets` folder to your S3 bucket to provide content for the website.
>
> If you are using a pre-existing bucket, you can move the files with the [AWS CLI](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/) using the following command:
> ```
> aws s3 cp --recursive --acl "public-read" ./ s3://YOUR-BUCKET/
> ```

Prior to proceeding, please be sure that you have at least one user associated with your *Username-Password-Authentication* Connection. In order to fully utilize the functionality of your sample app and its integration with AWS, you will need that user to test authentication and gain access.

Lastly, ensure that Auth0 allows authentication from your website by providing the URL in the **Allowed Origins** field in the *Settings* page of your Client. Your website's URL should look something like this:

`http://your-bucket.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/index.html`

If you don't know what your URL is, you can find it listed under the **Properties** tab of your S3 bucket.

Before going further, test logging into your application. Open `http://your-bucket-domain/index.html` in your browser. After logging in with the user you just created you should see an alert box pop up that says "getPets not implemented", with the page for viewing pets.

### Use Delegation to get an AWS Token

At this point you have authenticated with Auth0, and you have an OpenId JWT. Here is the directory structure for the generated code.

![](/media/articles/integrations/aws-api-gateway/aws-api-gateway-project.png)

You can use Auth0's delegation capability to obtain a token to access AWS based on our identity token. Behind the scenes, Auth0 authenticates your identity token, and then uses SAML based on the add-on that you configured as part of the [previous section](#configure-iam-and-auth0-for-saml-integration-and-the-api-gateway).

Update `pets/login/login.js` as follows to get an AWS delegation token from the identity token after a successful signin with `auth.signin`. Note that you are treating any user not logged in using a social connection as an admin. Later, we'll code a second role and show better ways to enforce role selection.


```js
auth.signin(params, function(profile, token) {
    store.set('profile', profile);
    store.set('token', token);

// set admin and get delegation token from identity token.
profile.isAdmin = !profile.identities[0].isSocial;
var options = getOptionsForRole(profile.isAdmin, token);

auth.getToken(options)
    .then(
      function(delegation)  {
        store.set('awstoken', delegation.Credentials);  //add to local storage
        $location.path("/");
      },
    function(err) {
       console.log('failed to acquire delegation token', err);
  });
}, function(error) {
  console.log("There was an error logging in", error);
});
```

To modify the `role` and `principal` strings, specify the appropriate values via [Rules](${manage_url}/#/rules):

```js
function (user, context, callback) {
  if (context.clientID === 'CLIENT_ID' &&
      context.protocol === 'delegation') {
    // set AWS settings
    context.addonConfiguration = context.addonConfiguration || {};
    context.addonConfiguration.aws = context.addonConfiguration.aws || {};
    context.addonConfiguration.aws.principal = 'arn:aws:iam::[omitted]:saml-provider/auth0-provider';
    context.addonConfiguration.aws.role = 'arn:aws:iam::[omitted]:role/auth0-role';
  }

  callback(null, user, context);
}

```

Copy the updated files to your S3 bucket for your web site. Optionally set a breakpoint in the browser at `          store.set('awstoken', delegation.Credentials);`. Log out and back in, then inspect `delegation.Credentials` when you hit the breakpoint. You will see a familiar values like *AccessKeyId* and *SecretAccessKey* if you've accessed AWS APIs programmatically before (if you don't then make sure you have the *AWS* enabled in the *Addons* tab for your Auth0 application):

```js
{
    AccessKeyId: "ASIAJB...BNQ",
    SecretAccessKey: "vS+b6...2Noav",
    SessionToken: "AQoDYBqsivOV...DdQW0gsKr8rgU=",
    Expiration: "2015-08-27T14:48:32.000Z"
}
```

### Display Pets with the AWS API Service

First, show the pets to end users. To add the API code for adding a call to your service, copy the contents of *apiGateway-js-sdk.zip* you previously downloaded to the `pets` directory. The contents should include `apiClient.js`, a `lib` folder, and a `README.md`. There is already a `README.md` in the `pets` directory, so just keep both. (The `README.md` for the API gateway explains how to use the api client from your application.) Open `index.html`, and add all of the scripts listed at the top of the API readme to `index.html`. For example:

```html
<!-- scripts for aws api gateway -->
<script type="text/javascript" src="lib/axios/dist/axios.standalone.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="lib/CryptoJS/rollups/hmac-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="lib/CryptoJS/rollups/sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="lib/CryptoJS/components/hmac.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="lib/CryptoJS/components/enc-base64.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="lib/moment/moment.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="lib/url-template/url-template.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="lib/apiGatewayCore/sigV4Client.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="lib/apiGatewayCore/apiGatewayClient.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="lib/apiGatewayCore/simpleHttpClient.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="lib/apiGatewayCore/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="apigClient.js"></script>
```

If you open `apiClient.js`, you can see that the downloaded library has created wrappers like `petsPost` and `petsGet` for your API methods. Don't modify this generated code. Open `home.js` and update the contents of `getPets` with a method for getting pets as follows (update the region if you are not running in `us-east-1`):

```js
function getPets() {
    // this is unauthenticated
    var apigClient = apigClientFactory.newClient({
        region: 'us-east-1' // The region where the API is deployed
    });

    apigClient.petsGet({},{})
      .then(function(response) {
        console.log(response);
        $scope.pets = response.data;
        $scope.$apply();
      }).catch(function (response) {
        alert('pets get failed');
        showError(response);
    });
}
```
Copy the updated code to your S3 bucket. If you refresh the page, you should see two animals listed (assuming you ran the previously described test on your API's that created these pets).

### Update Pets with the AWS API Service

Now that you have a working application with the API Gateway, add a method for updating the pets. First try it without authentication, and then add it in.

Append code for adding a pet. Remember that when you modified `auth.signin`, you set any user that is not a social user to admin. This includes users authenticated from the *Username-Password-Authentication* store). Modify the `putPets` logic to update pets using your API function. This function will be used for both adding and removing pets.

```js
function putPets(updatedPets) {
    var body = {pets: updatedPets};

    var apigClient = apigClientFactory.newClient({
        region: 'us-east-1' // set this to the region you are running in.
    });

    apigClient.petsPost({},body)
      .then(function(response) {
        console.log(response);
       }).catch(function (response) {
        alert('pets update failed');
        showError(response);
      });
}
```

The update logic will fail because you are not yet authenticating the AWS API Gateway method using IAM for *petsPost*, but you should test it. Copy the updated code to your S3 bucket. Add a frog for 4.99. You should see a failure occurring when you try to save. The error code is likely a failure due to the absence of the `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header. When you setup CORS, it was only configured up for a *200* status code. You'll need to set this up for each status code you want to go through to the end user. If you look in the browser debugger, you'll see that the underlying status is a 403.

Now add security by using the `getSecureApiClient` function at the start of the `putPets` method:

```js

function putPets(updatedPets) {
     var apigClient = getSecureApiClient();
}
```

Copy the code to your S3 bucket. The API The update should now succeed.

The `getSecureApiClient` function provided for you retrieves the AWS token from local storage acquired by using delegation to the API, and uses the access key, secret, and session token:

```js
  function getSecureApiClient() {
    var awstoken = store.get('awstoken');

    return apigClientFactory.newClient({
        accessKey: awstoken.AccessKeyId,
        secretKey: awstoken.SecretAccessKey,
        sessionToken: awstoken.SessionToken,
        region: 'us-east-1' // The region you are working out of.
    });
  }
```

[Prev](/integrations/aws-api-gateway/part-2) ----- [Next](/integrations/aws-api-gateway/part-4)

Commit message:

Edit first section of part 3

articles/integrations/aws-api-gateway/part-3.md, after:

---
title: Amazon API Gateway Tutorial - Building the Client App
description: Step 3 of Amazon API Gateway Tutorial
---

# AWS API Gateway Tutorial
## Step 3 - Building the Client Application
[Prev](/integrations/aws-api-gateway/part-2) ----- [Next](/integrations/aws-api-gateway/part-4)

In this step, you will build a single page, serverless client application using the AngularJS framework that you will serve out of an AWS S3 bucket configured to act as a static website.

### 1. Setting Up Your Sample Application

For a simple starter app, download this seed project.

```
<%= include('../../_includes/_package', {
  pkgRepo: 'auth0-aws',
  pkgBranch: 'master',
  pkgPath: 'examples/api-gateway/client',
  pkgFilePath: null,
  pkgType: 'js'
}) %>
```

Copy the contents of this seed project to a local folder called `pets`, which you will be using for the remainder of this tutorial.

> Be sure that you have [created the AWS S3 bucket that you have configured to act as a static website](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/gettingstarted/latest/swh/website-hosting-intro.html). During the setup process, copy the contents of the `pets` folder to your S3 bucket to provide content for the website.
>
> If you are using a pre-existing bucket, you can move the files with the [AWS CLI](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/) using the following command:
> ```
> aws s3 cp --recursive --acl "public-read" ./ s3://YOUR-BUCKET/
> ```

Prior to proceeding, please be sure that you have at least one user associated with your *Username-Password-Authentication* Connection. In order to fully utilize the functionality of your sample app and its integration with AWS, you will need that user to test authentication and gain access.

Lastly, ensure that Auth0 allows authentication from your website by providing the URL in the **Allowed Origins** field in the *Settings* page of your Client. Your website's URL should look something like this:

`http://your-bucket.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com`

If you don't know what your URL is, you can find it listed under the **Properties** tab of your S3 bucket.

Before going further, test logging into your application. Open `http://your-bucket-domain/index.html` in your browser. After logging in, you should see an alert box pop up that says "getPets not implemented", with the page for viewing pets.

### Use Delegation to get an AWS Token

At this point, you have authentication set up with Auth0, and you have an OpenId JWT. Here is the directory structure for the generated code.

![](/media/articles/integrations/aws-api-gateway/aws-api-gateway-project.png)

You can use Auth0's delegation capability to obtain an AWS access token that is based on the Auth0 identity token. Behind the scenes, Auth0 authenticates your identity token, and then uses SAML based on the addon that you configured.

Update `pets/login/login.js` as follows to get an AWS delegation token from the identity token after a successful signin with `auth.signin`. Note that you are treating any user not logged in using a social connection as an admin. Later, we'll code a second role and show better ways to enforce role selection.


```js
auth.signin(params, function(profile, token) {
    store.set('profile', profile);
    store.set('token', token);

// set admin and get delegation token from identity token.
profile.isAdmin = !profile.identities[0].isSocial;
var options = getOptionsForRole(profile.isAdmin, token);

auth.getToken(options)
    .then(
      function(delegation)  {
        store.set('awstoken', delegation.Credentials);  //add to local storage
        $location.path("/");
      },
    function(err) {
       console.log('failed to acquire delegation token', err);
  });
}, function(error) {
  console.log("There was an error logging in", error);
});
```

#### Modifying the `role` and `principal` Strings

To modify the `role` and `principal` strings, specify the appropriate values via [Rules](${manage_url}/#/rules):

```js
function (user, context, callback) {
  if (context.clientID === 'CLIENT_ID' &&
      context.protocol === 'delegation') {
    // set AWS settings
    context.addonConfiguration = context.addonConfiguration || {};
    context.addonConfiguration.aws = context.addonConfiguration.aws || {};
    context.addonConfiguration.aws.principal = 'arn:aws:iam::[omitted]:saml-provider/auth0-provider';
    context.addonConfiguration.aws.role = 'arn:aws:iam::[omitted]:role/auth0-role';
  }

  callback(null, user, context);
}
```

Copy the updated files to your S3 bucket for your web site.

Optionally, you can set a breakpoint in the browser at `store.set('awstoken', delegation.Credentials);`. When you log out and and log back in, inspect `delegation.Credentials` when you arrive at the breakpoint. You will see a familiar values like *AccessKeyId* and *SecretAccessKey*:

```js
{
    AccessKeyId: "ASIAJB...BNQ",
    SecretAccessKey: "vS+b6...2Noav",
    SessionToken: "AQoDYBqsivOV...DdQW0gsKr8rgU=",
    Expiration: "2015-08-27T14:48:32.000Z"
}
```

If you don't see these values, be sure that you have the *Amazon Web Services addon* enabled in the *Addons* tab for your Auth0 Client.

### Display Pets with the AWS API Service

The first thing you will do is show the pets to the end users.

To add the API code for adding a call to your service, copy the contents of *apiGateway-js-sdk.zip* you [previously downloaded](/integrations/aws-api-gateway/part-2/#deploy-the-api) to the `pets` directory. The contents should include `apiClient.js`, a `lib` folder, and a `README.md`. (There is already a `README.md` in the `pets` directory, so you will need to rename one of the files to keep both in the directory. The `README.md` for the API gateway explains how to use the API client from your Auth0 Client.)

Open `index.html` to add all of the scripts listed at the top of the API readme to `index.html`:

```html
<!-- scripts for aws api gateway include after you create your package from aws for api gateway. -->
<script type="text/javascript" src="lib/axios/dist/axios.standalone.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="lib/CryptoJS/rollups/hmac-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="lib/CryptoJS/rollups/sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="lib/CryptoJS/components/hmac.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="lib/CryptoJS/components/enc-base64.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="lib/moment/moment.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="lib/url-template/url-template.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="lib/apiGatewayCore/sigV4Client.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="lib/apiGatewayCore/apiGatewayClient.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="lib/apiGatewayCore/simpleHttpClient.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="lib/apiGatewayCore/utils.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="apigClient.js"></script>
```

If you open `apigClient.js`, you can see that the downloaded library has created wrappers like `petsPost` and `petsGet` for your API methods. You do not need to modify this generated code.

Open `home.js` in the `home` folder, and update the contents of `getPets` with a method for retrieving pets data (be sure to update the region if you are not running in `us-east-1`):

```js
function getPets() {
    // this is unauthenticated
    var apigClient = apigClientFactory.newClient({
        region: 'us-east-1' // The region where the API is deployed
    });

    apigClient.petsGet({},{})
      .then(function(response) {
        console.log(response);
        $scope.pets = response.data;
        $scope.$apply();
      }).catch(function (response) {
        alert('pets get failed');
        showError(response);
    });
}
```

Copy the updated code to your S3 bucket. Refresh the page to see two animals listed (if you ran the previously described test on your APIs that created these pets).

### Update Pets with the AWS API Service

Now that you have a working application with the API Gateway, add a method for updating the pets. First try it without authentication, and then add it in.

Append code for adding a pet. Remember that when you modified `auth.signin`, you set any user that is not a social user to admin. This includes users authenticated from the *Username-Password-Authentication* store). Modify the `putPets` logic to update pets using your API function. This function will be used for both adding and removing pets.

```js
function putPets(updatedPets) {
    var body = {pets: updatedPets};

    var apigClient = apigClientFactory.newClient({
        region: 'us-east-1' // set this to the region you are running in.
    });

    apigClient.petsPost({},body)
      .then(function(response) {
        console.log(response);
       }).catch(function (response) {
        alert('pets update failed');
        showError(response);
      });
}
```

The update logic will fail because you are not yet authenticating the AWS API Gateway method using IAM for *petsPost*, but you should test it. Copy the updated code to your S3 bucket. Add a frog for 4.99. You should see a failure occurring when you try to save. The error code is likely a failure due to the absence of the `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header. When you setup CORS, it was only configured up for a *200* status code. You'll need to set this up for each status code you want to go through to the end user. If you look in the browser debugger, you'll see that the underlying status is a 403.

Now add security by using the `getSecureApiClient` function at the start of the `putPets` method:

```js

function putPets(updatedPets) {
     var apigClient = getSecureApiClient();
}
```

Copy the code to your S3 bucket. The API The update should now succeed.

The `getSecureApiClient` function provided for you retrieves the AWS token from local storage acquired by using delegation to the API, and uses the access key, secret, and session token:

```js
  function getSecureApiClient() {
    var awstoken = store.get('awstoken');

    return apigClientFactory.newClient({
        accessKey: awstoken.AccessKeyId,
        secretKey: awstoken.SecretAccessKey,
        sessionToken: awstoken.SessionToken,
        region: 'us-east-1' // The region you are working out of.
    });
  }
```

[Prev](/integrations/aws-api-gateway/part-2) ----- [Next](/integrations/aws-api-gateway/part-4)
