Load tests require prior approval from Auth0, as explained in the Auth0 [load test policy](/policies/load-testing). Be sure to note the lead time for a request to be reviewed and allow enough time for review as well as conducting the tests. If your load test request has been approved, the following guidance can help avoid errors and faulty test results.

* Run an HTTP trace on a test execution of your application to identify all the calls your application or intended test needs to make, and make sure your test includes them so it is representative of what will happen in production.
* Design your test to be mindful of Auth0 API rate limits.
* Use of any custom code in Auth0 (Rules, Custom DB scripts, Hooks, Custom OAuth connections) will invoke the Auth0 custom code sandbox and this may cost more in terms of performance.  Turn off Rules unless they are essential to the test.  If they are off you will have higher throughput than if they are on.
* Estimate the expected overall load for your production environment and percent of calls to each endpoint and structure your performance test accordingly so it gives you a realistic test result.  Different endpoints have different performance costs.  Failure to design a representative test will result in misleading results.
* Don’t make calls that depend on the results of earlier calls without checking that pre-requisite calls or responses have completed.  Simply building in a delay may not be adequate.  
* Be sure to implement adequate error handling.  A frequent cause of issues during tests is errors in custom code (rules, hooks, Custom db scripts, Custom OAuth connection scripts) caused by unhandled exceptions in the custom code.
* Load tests should be written to start at a low level and increase the load gradually, capturing data at each level, to get the most useful results.  Starting at a high level and immediately failing gives less information about what the system can sustain.
* It is normal to need to run a performance test multiple times, possibly adjusting the code under test or the test harness/configuration.  Be sure to start your testing early to allow enough time for more than one iteration.
* Use your own mail provider account and make sure to arrange ahead of time for enough mail-sending quota or you may be rate-limited by the mail provider.  Turn off mail sending if you do not use it.
* Be sure to use your own account credentials for all social connections rather than Auth0 dev keys.  In the Auth0 dashboard, go to Connections -> Social -> {name of connection} - to see instructions for how to add your own social provider account credentials into the connection.
Note: some social providers do not allow load testing. Check your provider(s) for their policy
* In order to avoid rate limiting, and more accurately simulate real load, your tests will need to send requests for different users, not all requests for the same user. If you use only one or a few users, caching may reduce the effective load and not provide realistic results.
* Be sure to stay within the agreed-upon parameters for the test and the Auth0 [load test policy](/policies/load-testing).  Auth0 reserves the right to terminate any performance/load testing which does not stay within the bounds of agreed-upon parameters or which extends beyond the scheduled test window.
