Auth0 [Universal Login](#universal-login) provides users with a safe and secure experience - no matter whether you choose to provide for user ID/password credentials sign in, or allow the so-called Bring Your Own Identity scenarios provided via [Social Login](https://auth0.com/learn/social-login/). There are also brand recognition benefits to centralizing the login experience with Universal Login, even if you feel you will also have product-specific [branding](/architecture-scenarios/implementation/b2c/b2c-branding) requirements. The Auth0 UI widgets typically used with Universal Login also provide out-of-the-box support with regards to [internationalization](/libraries/lock/v11/i18n) for users with different language requirements, and out-of-the-box support for Auth0 features such as [MFA](/multifactor-authentication) and [anomaly detection](#anomaly-detection) allow you to put barriers in place in order to prevent hackers attempting to access users' accounts. 

Allowing users to sign in via user ID/password credentials means that you're not reliant on the status of third-party identity providers for your users to access your system. You also have the means to require that the credentials used align with your corporate policies. Autho assists with this by providing you with multiple options in support of user ID/password logins. 

If you have an existing legacy identity store, you’ll also want to see [User Migration](/architecture-scenarios/implementation/b2c/b2c-provisioning#user-migration). This section discusses the advantages of migrating to Auth0’s managed identity storage in terms of safety and security. 

Adding [social authentication](#social-authentication) at some point as an additional primary authentication factor gives you added flexibility and can help better understand your users without the need to question them further. You can do this by leveraging information already stored by the various social login [providers](https://auth0.com/docs/identityproviders#social).

OpenID Connect ([OIDC](/protocols/oidc)) is the most frequently used industry standard protocol when it comes to customer facing applications, and OIDC has first-class citizen support in Auth0. Various different approaches for integrating various different applications are supported. See [application integration](#application-integration) for information you'll need to make an informed choice. 