Auth0 provides for the storage of [Metadata](#metadata) against a user’s profile, which allows for the capture of additional information, such as preference for language and/or accessibility in order to enhance the user experience. Metadata can be used to store both information that a user can change, and also information they can’t; the latter giving you the capability of associating, for example, a user profile with records in your existing systems without modifying existing implementation. 

For users who forget their passwords or who are allowed to change their password via some existing self-service mechanism (or self-service mechanism you have planned), Auth0-provided [Password Reset](#password-reset) functionality can be leveraged. This can be integrated with your (existing) implementation and comes already incorporated with any out-of-box Auth0 UI widgets included as part of [Universal Login](/universal-login).  

You’ll also want to make sure that you are working with a [verified user account](#account-verification) at all times, and Auth0 provides out-of-box mechanisms for doing that too. There is also regulatory compliance to be considered ([GDPR](https://eugdpr.org/), for example, has some very specific requirements when it comes to protecting all EU citizens from privacy and data breaches) and [guidance concerning this](/compliance) is also provided.  

Though Auth0 doesn’t currently provide any form of centralized profile management portal out-of-the-box, for the purpose of self-serviced profile management, the Auth0 Management API can be leveraged to build your own (or utilize an already built) UI, and Auth0 [community guidance](https://community.auth0.com/t/how-to-allow-the-end-user-to-update-their-own-profile-information/6228) describes in further detail the Management API endpoint for doing this. NB calls to the Management API will require use of an [Access Token](/api/management/v2/tokens).

::: warning
Self-service profile management can raise security as well as data privacy concerns. For example, you may want to allow a user to change their email address; however, doing so without following best practice security guidance could result in a user locking themselves out of their account, leaking Personally Identifiable Information (PII), or worse, opening up a potential breach in security.
:::

Alternatively, the Auth0 Dashboard can be used to [manage aspects of a user’s profile](users/guides/manage-users-using-the-dashboard). Managing a user’s profile via the Auth0 Dashboard is more of an administrative provision and **should not** be used for self-serviced profile management in a production environment. However, the interface provided by the Dashboard can be extremely useful during development as it provides a quick and simple way of manipulating a user’s profile information.