articles/architecture-scenarios/application/spa-api.md, before:

---
order: 01
title: SPA + API
image: /docs/media/articles/architecture-scenarios/spa-api.png
extract: Single Page Web Application “Client” which talks to an API (“Resource Server”). The application will use OpenID Connect with the Implicit Grant Flow to authenticate users with Auth0.
---

# SPA + API

![](/media/articles/architecture-scenarios/spa-api.png)

In this scenario you have a Single Page Web Application “Client” which talks to an API (“Resource Server”). The application will use OpenID Connect with the Implicit Grant Flow to authenticate users with Auth0.

When a user logs in, Auth0 will return to the application an `access_token` as well as an `id_token`. The `id_token` is used to securely call the API on behalf of the user. Alternatively the user profile can be obtained by calling the `/userinfo` endpoint in the Auth0 Authentication API with the `access_token`.

The application will usually store the information about the user’s session (i.e. whether they are logged in, their tokens, user profile data, etc) inside some sort of storage such a Local Storage.

## Read More

The following is a list of articles on this website which will help you to implement this scenario:

* [Single Page App](/quickstart/spa/)
* [Lock](/libraries/lock)
* [API Authentication and Authorization](/api-auth)
* [API Auth: Implicit Grant](/api-auth/grant/implicit)
* [Auth0 access_token](/tokens/access_token)
* [Auth0 id_token](/tokens/id_token)

Commit message:

Adding more descriptions
Adds descriptions to:
architecture-scenarios
cms
connector
dev-centers
error-pages

Ongoing work as part of:
https://trello.com/c/fseFQAic/130-add-descriptions-to-all-markdown-files

articles/architecture-scenarios/application/spa-api.md, after:

---
order: 01
title: SPA + API
image: /docs/media/articles/architecture-scenarios/spa-api.png
extract: Single Page Web Application “Client” which talks to an API (“Resource Server”). The application will use OpenID Connect with the Implicit Grant Flow to authenticate users with Auth0.
description: Explains the architecture scenario with a Single Page Web Application to an API using OpenID Connect with the Implicit Grant Flow to authenticate users with Auth0.
---

# SPA + API

![](/media/articles/architecture-scenarios/spa-api.png)

In this scenario you have a Single Page Web Application “Client” which talks to an API (“Resource Server”). The application will use OpenID Connect with the Implicit Grant Flow to authenticate users with Auth0.

When a user logs in, Auth0 will return to the application an `access_token` as well as an `id_token`. The `id_token` is used to securely call the API on behalf of the user. Alternatively the user profile can be obtained by calling the `/userinfo` endpoint in the Auth0 Authentication API with the `access_token`.

The application will usually store the information about the user’s session (i.e. whether they are logged in, their tokens, user profile data, etc) inside some sort of storage such a Local Storage.

## Read More

The following is a list of articles on this website which will help you to implement this scenario:

* [Single Page App](/quickstart/spa/)
* [Lock](/libraries/lock)
* [API Authentication and Authorization](/api-auth)
* [API Auth: Implicit Grant](/api-auth/grant/implicit)
* [Auth0 access_token](/tokens/access_token)
* [Auth0 id_token](/tokens/id_token)
