articles/multifactor-authentication/guardian/guardian-landing.md, before:

---
title: Auth0 Guardian
description: Links to Guardian documentation for each type of Guardian user role.
url: /multifactor-authentication/guardian
---

# Auth0 Guardian

Guardian is Auth0's multifactor authentication (MFA) application that provides a simple, safe way for you to implement MFA. The Guardian app is used for two-factor authentication when logging into an application, which helps create a more secure login. With two-factor authentication your users will always need their mobile device in order to login.

**Click the link below that most fits your role to learn more:**

[Guardian for Administrators](/multifactor-authentication/guardian/admin-guide) - this page explains how to enable and use Push Notifications and SMS for MFA for signing in your users.

[Guardian for Developers](/multifactor-authentication/guardian/dev-guide) - this page explains how to enable Guardian, and details on how to configure it to meet your needs.

[Guardian for Users](/multifactor-authentication/guardian/user-guide) - this page is for users logging into your application using Guardian, Google Authenticator or SMS. It also has troubleshooting tips for any issues they may encounter.

Commit message:

Admin and developer page revamp

articles/multifactor-authentication/guardian/guardian-landing.md, after:

---
title: Auth0 Guardian
description: Links to Guardian documentation for each type of Guardian user role.
url: /multifactor-authentication/guardian
---

# Auth0 Guardian

Guardian is Auth0's multifactor authentication solution that provides a simple and secure way to implement MFA. When using Guardian with Auth0, users will be prompted for additional authentication from the Guardian mobile application, helping to provide a more secure login. 

**To learn more, click the link below that most suits your role:**

[Guardian for Administrators](/multifactor-authentication/administrator) - information on how to enable and configure Guardian.

[Guardian for Developers](/multifactor-authentication/developer) - learn how to customize Guardian to your needs, and use multifactor within your applications.

[Guardian for Users](/multifactor-authentication/guardian/user-guide) - this page is for users logging into your application using Guardian, Google Authenticator or SMS. It also has troubleshooting tips for any issues they may encounter.
