---
title: API Settings
description: Learn about the settings related to APIs available in the Auth0 Dashboard.
topics:
  - api-authentication
  - oidc
  - apis
  - dashboard
contentType: reference
useCase:
  - secure-api
  - call-api
---
# API Settings

On the [APIs](${manage_url}/#/apis) page of the [Auth0 Dashboard](${manage_url}/), locate your API and click its name to view the available settings.

## General Settings

- **Id**: A unique alphanumeric string generated by Auth0. This information is read-only, and you will only need it if you will be working directly with [Auth0's Management API Resource Servers endpoints](/api/management/v2#!/Resource_Servers/get_resource_servers_by_id).

- **Name**: A friendly name for the API. Does not affect any functionality. The following characters are not allowed: `< >`.

- **Identifier**: A unique identifier for your API. This value is set upon API creation and cannot be modified afterwards. We recommend using a URL, but this doesn't have to be a publicly available URL; Auth0 will not call your API at all.

## Token Settings

- **Token Expiration (Seconds)**: The amount of time (in seconds) before the Auth0 Access Token expires. The default value is 86400 seconds (24 hours). The maximum value you can set is 2592000 seconds (30 days).

- **Token Expiration for Browser Flows (Seconds)**: Amount of time (in seconds) before the Auth0 Access Tokens issued for the API via Implicit or Hybrid Flows expires. Cannot be greater than the Token Lifetime value.

- **Signing Algorithm**: The algorithm with which to sign the tokens. The available values are `HS256` and `RS256`. When selecting `RS256` (recommended), the token will be signed with your tenant's private key. This value is set when your API is created and cannot be modified afterwards. To learn more about signing algorithms, see [Signing Algorithms](/tokens/concepts/signing-algorithms).

## RBAC Settings

- **Enable RBAC**: When enabled, RBAC authorization policies will be enforced for this API. Role and permission assignments will be evaluated during the login transaction.

- **Add Permissions in the Access Token**: When enabled, the Permissions claim will be added to the Access Token. Only available if RBAC is enabled for this API.

## Access Settings

- **Allow Skipping User Consent**: When enabled, the User Consent dialog will not be shown to the end user when a first-party application requests authorized access against your API. Please note that if the hostname of your application's **callbackURL** is `localhost` or `127.0.0.1`, the consent dialog will always be displayed.

- **Allow Offline Access**: When enabled, Auth0 will allow applications to ask for <dfn data-key="refresh-token">Refresh Tokens</dfn> for your API.

## Token Exchange Settings

- **Enable Token Exchange**: When enabled, the API will be able to act as a client to exchange Access Tokens with other APIs using the On-Behalf-Of Flow.

- **Client ID**: Unique identifier for the API when acting as a client during the On-Behalf-Of Flow. Generated by the system when you enable the **Enable Token Exchange** toggle and cannot be modified.

- **Client Secret**: String used to sign and validate Access Tokens when API acts as a client during the On-Behalf-Of Flow. By default, the value is hidden, so click the eye emoji to see it.
