articles/appliance/admin/managing-the-dashboard.md, before:

---
section: appliance
---

# Auth0 Appliance Administration: Managing the Dashboard

### Accessing the Dashboard

::: panel-warning Connections for the Auth0 Client
The **Auth0** client in the Root Tenant Authority (RTA) controls access to the Management Dashboard, and the only Connections that you should enable for this client is the built-in Database Connection (the default Connection for this client is a Database Connection called *Initial-Connection*) or an enterprise connection like the AD-LDAP Connector. You should **never** enable a Social Connection for the **Auth0** client.

Additionally, please [disable signups](/appliance/admin/disabling-sign-ups) for the **Auth0** client.
:::


The [Auth0 Dashboard](/appliance/dashboard) uses the Auth0 Appliance to authenticate its users.

Within the list of applications, you will see the Auth0 Application, which represents the Dashboard itself. It uses a connection called `Initial-Connection`, which stores the credentials of the administrators that have access to the Dashboard.

> Changes to the Auth0 Client or `Initial-Connection` may result in unexpected Dashboard behavior. Please makes changes with caution.

Because the Dashboard uses the Appliance for authentication, any configured rules will run whenever a user accesses the Dashboard. Because errors in one or more of your rules may result in you losing access to the Dashboard, Auth0 suggests writing rules that exclude the Auth0 application:

```js

function (user, context, callback) {
    if (context.clientName === 'Auth0') {
      return callback(null, user, context);
    }

    // Your code.

    callback(null, user, context);
}

```

> The default user `root@auth0.com` has access to the Appliance and its configuration area. Please remember to reset this user's default password or disable the user via the Auth0 Dashboard.

### Restricting Access to the Dashboard

Because the Dashboard uses the Appliance to authenticate users, the Dashboard is using Connections, [Rules](/rules), and so on, just like any other application you might add in the future.

As a result, you have several options for restricting access to the dashboard, including, but not limited to:

* writing rules to allow users only from a specific IP address;
* writing rules to allow only co-administrators of the Appliance to authenticate using their Active Directory (via either ADFS or AD Connector).

Commit message:

Add descriptions to Appliance docs

articles/appliance/admin/managing-the-dashboard.md, after:

---
section: appliance
description: How to access and restrict access to the Appliance Management Dashboard
---

# Auth0 Appliance Administration: Managing the Dashboard

### Accessing the Dashboard

::: panel-warning Connections for the Auth0 Client
The **Auth0** client in the Root Tenant Authority (RTA) controls access to the Management Dashboard, and the only Connections that you should enable for this client is the built-in Database Connection (the default Connection for this client is a Database Connection called *Initial-Connection*) or an enterprise connection like the AD-LDAP Connector. You should **never** enable a Social Connection for the **Auth0** client.

Additionally, please [disable signups](/appliance/admin/disabling-sign-ups) for the **Auth0** client.
:::


The [Auth0 Dashboard](/appliance/dashboard) uses the Auth0 Appliance to authenticate its users.

Within the list of applications, you will see the Auth0 Application, which represents the Dashboard itself. It uses a connection called `Initial-Connection`, which stores the credentials of the administrators that have access to the Dashboard.

> Changes to the Auth0 Client or `Initial-Connection` may result in unexpected Dashboard behavior. Please makes changes with caution.

Because the Dashboard uses the Appliance for authentication, any configured rules will run whenever a user accesses the Dashboard. Because errors in one or more of your rules may result in you losing access to the Dashboard, Auth0 suggests writing rules that exclude the Auth0 application:

```js

function (user, context, callback) {
    if (context.clientName === 'Auth0') {
      return callback(null, user, context);
    }

    // Your code.

    callback(null, user, context);
}

```

> The default user `root@auth0.com` has access to the Appliance and its configuration area. Please remember to reset this user's default password or disable the user via the Auth0 Dashboard.

### Restricting Access to the Dashboard

Because the Dashboard uses the Appliance to authenticate users, the Dashboard is using Connections, [Rules](/rules), and so on, just like any other application you might add in the future.

As a result, you have several options for restricting access to the dashboard, including, but not limited to:

* writing rules to allow users only from a specific IP address;
* writing rules to allow only co-administrators of the Appliance to authenticate using their Active Directory (via either ADFS or AD Connector).
