articles/email/templates.md, before:

# Customizing Your Emails

::: panel-warning Notice
You must setup your own email provider using a [third-party service](/email/providers) ([Amazon SES](https://aws.amazon.com/ses/), [Mandrill](https://www.mandrill.com/signup/) or [SendGrid](https://sendgrid.com/pricing)) or a [custom provider](/email/custom) to be able to customize your emails.
:::

The [Emails](${uiURL}/#/emails) dashboard allows you to customize your emails with markdown templates and macros. This can include references to the context of the current application or user. 

![](/media/articles/email/index/emails-fields.png)

## Configuring *From*, *Subject*, *Redirect To*, and *URL Lifetime*

For each type of email, you can customize the **From Address**, the **Subject**, the **Redirect To** and the **URL Lifetime**.

### *From Address*

Users will see the sender's address in the **From Address** field when receiving an email from Auth0. If you do not configure a From Address for your emails your emails will be sent from the email address of the first owner of your Auth0 account.

**NOTE:** For security purposes, you may not send customized emails from any `@auth0.com` address. If you are an appliance user, you may configure a similar domain blacklist.

The **From Address** field supports the following macros:

* `{application.name}`
* `{connection.name}`

You can use these macros to set the display name of the **From Address** to something that relates to the application for which the user signed up. For example, the field could display `{application.name} <support@fabrikamcorp.com>`, as opposed to simply `<support@fabrikamcorp.com>`.

You must add the [Sender Policy Framework (SPF)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sender_Policy_Framework) and [DomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DKIM) DNS records to your domain's zone file to allow Auth0 to send digitally-signed emails on your behalf. Without these records, the emails may end up in your users' junkmail folders. Additionally, your users may see the following as the **From Address**:

`MyApp support@mail128-21.atl41.mandrillapp.com on behalf of MyApp support@fabrikamcorp.com`

#### SPF Configuration

You can configure the SPF by adding a TXT record to your domain's zone file. You should set the host name to `@`, or leave it empty, depending on the provider. 

#### DKIM Configuration

The DKIM configuration is configured by adding a TXT record to your domain's zone file. This domain should be the one you use to send emails. For example if you are using [Mandrill](https://www.mandrill.com/signup/) you would set the host name for this record to:

```text
mandrill._domainkey
``` 

and the value to:

```text
v=DKIM1; k=rsa; p=MIGfMA0GCSqGSIb3DQEBAQUAA4GNADCBiQKBgQCrLHiExVd55zd/IQ/J/mRwSRMAocV/hMB3jXwaHH36d9NaVynQFYV8NaWi69c1veUtRzGt7yAioXqLj7Z4TeEUoOLgrKsn8YnckGs9i3B3tVFB+Ch/4mPhXWiNfNdynHWBcPcbJ8kjEQ2U8y78dHZj1YeRXXVvWob2OaKynO8/lQIDAQAB;
```

### Subject

You can use the following macros with the **Subject** field:

* `{application.name}`
* `{connection.name}`
* `{user.email}`

If the **Subject** field is empty, Auth0 will auto-populate this text depending on what type of email you're sending. For example, one subject line might be "*Verify your email.*"

### Redirect To

You can redirect users to a specific page on the *Allowed Callback URL* using the following:

`{application.callback_domain}/result_page`

If your application has multiple *Allowed Callback URL*s configured, Auth0 will use the first URL listed.

#### Different `RedirectTo` URLs

You can set up a different Redirect To URL depending on your Client ID. Here's an example:

```text
{% if application.clientID == 'YOUR_CLIENT_ID_HERE' %} http://jwt.io {% else %} http://auth0.com {% endif %}
```

### URL Lifetime

The **Verification Email** and **Change Password Confirmation Email** contain links which allow users to verify their email address when signing up, or confirm their password change, respectively.

You can modify the lifetime of this link for security purposes. By default, the lifetime is 432000 seconds (which is equivalent to five days).

If users click on an expired link and a **Redirect To** URL is configured, they will be redirected to the configured **Redirect To** URL. The following text will be appended to the querystring:

```text
http://myapplication.com/my_page/?email=john%contoso.com&message=Access%20expired&success=false
```

## Email Templates

### Multilingual Email Templates

The following `user` attributes are now available from email templates (this includes `Verification Email`, `Welcome Email`, `Change Password Confirmation Email` and `Blocked Account Email`):

#### Using Markdown Syntax

* `email`
* `email_verified`
* `picture`
* `name`
* `nickname`
* `given_name`
* `family_name`

This means you can now refer to those attributes in the following way:

```text
Hello @@user.given_name@@ @@user.family_name@@
```

#### HTML + Liquid syntax

* `email`
* `email_verified`
* `picture`
* `name`
* `nickname`
* `given_name`
* `family_name`
* `app_metadata`
* `user_metadata`

This means you can now refer to use control flow statements and use the above attributes in the following way:

```text
{% if user.user_metadata.lang == 'es' %}
  Hola {{ user.name }}, ...
{% elsif user.user_metadata.lang == 'it' %}
  Ciao {{ user.name }}, ...
{% else %}
  Hi {{ user.name }}, ...
{% endif %}
```

### Verification Email

When users sign up or log in for the first time, they will be sent a verification email. Clicking on the verification link in the email sets the 'email verified' property of their user profile to `true`.

The following macros are available in the **Verification Email** template:

* `{application.name}`
* `{connection.name}`
* `{user.email}`

If you configure a **Redirect To** URL, the user will be directed to this URL after clicking the verification link. The following will be appended to the querystring:

```text
http://myapplication.com/my_page/?email=john%40contoso.com&message=Your%20email%20was%20verified.%20You%20can%20continue%20using%20the%20application.&success=true
```

### Welcome Email

Once a user verifies their email address, they will receive a **Welcome Email**. If you turn off the **Verification Email** feature, the **Welcome Email** will be sent to the user when they sign up (or login for the first time).

The following macros are available in the **Welcome Email** template:

* `{application.name}`
* `{connection.name}`
* `{user.email}`

### Change Password Confirmation Email

If a user requests a password change, they will receive a **Change Password Confirmation Email**. Until the user clicks the verification link contained in the email, the password will remain unchanged.

The following macros are available in the **Change Password Confirmation** email template:

* `{application.name}`
* `{connection.name}`
* `{user.email}`

If you configure a **Redirect To** URL, the user will be directed to this URL after clicking the verification link. The following will be appended to the querystring sent:

```text
http://myapplication.com/my_page/?success=true&message=You%20can%20now%20login%20to%20the%20application%20with%20the%20new%20password.
```

### Blocked Account Email

If a user attempts and fails to log in ten or more times from a specific IP address, the user's account becomes locked and they will receive a **Blocked Account** email. Once the user receives this email, they will not be able to log in from that IP address again until they click on the link contained in the email.

If the user successfully logs in before they exhaust their ten allowed attempts, the counter is reset.

The following macros are available in the **Blocked Account Email** template:

* `user.source_ip`
* `user.city`
* `user.country`
* `application.name`
* `connection.name`

Commit message:

Adding doc on email url redirect issues (#1581)

articles/email/templates.md, after:

# Customizing Your Emails

::: panel-warning Notice
You must setup your own email provider using a [third-party service](/email/providers) ([Amazon SES](https://aws.amazon.com/ses/), [Mandrill](https://www.mandrill.com/signup/) or [SendGrid](https://sendgrid.com/pricing)) or a [custom provider](/email/custom) to be able to customize your emails.
:::

The [Emails](${uiURL}/#/emails) dashboard allows you to customize your emails with markdown templates and macros. This can include references to the context of the current application or user. 

![](/media/articles/email/index/emails-fields.png)

## Configuring *From*, *Subject*, *Redirect To*, and *URL Lifetime*

For each type of email, you can customize the **From Address**, the **Subject**, the **Redirect To** and the **URL Lifetime**.

### *From Address*

Users will see the sender's address in the **From Address** field when receiving an email from Auth0. If you do not configure a From Address for your emails your emails will be sent from the email address of the first owner of your Auth0 account.

**NOTE:** For security purposes, you may not send customized emails from any `@auth0.com` address. If you are an appliance user, you may configure a similar domain blacklist.

The **From Address** field supports the following macros:

* `{application.name}`
* `{connection.name}`

You can use these macros to set the display name of the **From Address** to something that relates to the application for which the user signed up. For example, the field could display `{application.name} <support@fabrikamcorp.com>`, as opposed to simply `<support@fabrikamcorp.com>`.

You must add the [Sender Policy Framework (SPF)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sender_Policy_Framework) and [DomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DKIM) DNS records to your domain's zone file to allow Auth0 to send digitally-signed emails on your behalf. Without these records, the emails may end up in your users' junkmail folders. Additionally, your users may see the following as the **From Address**:

`MyApp support@mail128-21.atl41.mandrillapp.com on behalf of MyApp support@fabrikamcorp.com`

#### SPF Configuration

You can configure the SPF by adding a TXT record to your domain's zone file. You should set the host name to `@`, or leave it empty, depending on the provider. 

#### DKIM Configuration

The DKIM configuration is configured by adding a TXT record to your domain's zone file. This domain should be the one you use to send emails. For example if you are using [Mandrill](https://www.mandrill.com/signup/) you would set the host name for this record to:

```text
mandrill._domainkey
``` 

and the value to:

```text
v=DKIM1; k=rsa; p=MIGfMA0GCSqGSIb3DQEBAQUAA4GNADCBiQKBgQCrLHiExVd55zd/IQ/J/mRwSRMAocV/hMB3jXwaHH36d9NaVynQFYV8NaWi69c1veUtRzGt7yAioXqLj7Z4TeEUoOLgrKsn8YnckGs9i3B3tVFB+Ch/4mPhXWiNfNdynHWBcPcbJ8kjEQ2U8y78dHZj1YeRXXVvWob2OaKynO8/lQIDAQAB;
```

### Subject

You can use the following macros with the **Subject** field:

* `{application.name}`
* `{connection.name}`
* `{user.email}`

If the **Subject** field is empty, Auth0 will auto-populate this text depending on what type of email you're sending. For example, one subject line might be "*Verify your email.*"

### Redirect To

You can redirect users to a specific page on the *Allowed Callback URL* using the following:

`{application.callback_domain}/result_page`

If your application has multiple *Allowed Callback URL*s configured, Auth0 will use the first URL listed.

#### Different `RedirectTo` URLs

You can set up a different Redirect To URL depending on your Client ID. Here's an example:

```text
{% if application.clientID == 'YOUR_CLIENT_ID_HERE' %} http://jwt.io {% else %} http://auth0.com {% endif %}
```

::: panel-info Note
For some single page apps, the redirect url can sometimes contain a hash that may be removed. This results in the **redirect To** url not working as expected. [Click here to learn more.](/email/spa-redirect)
:::

### URL Lifetime

The **Verification Email** and **Change Password Confirmation Email** contain links which allow users to verify their email address when signing up, or confirm their password change, respectively.

You can modify the lifetime of this link for security purposes. By default, the lifetime is 432000 seconds (which is equivalent to five days).

If users click on an expired link and a **Redirect To** URL is configured, they will be redirected to the configured **Redirect To** URL. The following text will be appended to the querystring:

```text
http://myapplication.com/my_page/?email=john%contoso.com&message=Access%20expired&success=false
```

## Email Templates

### Multilingual Email Templates

The following `user` attributes are now available from email templates (this includes `Verification Email`, `Welcome Email`, `Change Password Confirmation Email` and `Blocked Account Email`):

#### Using Markdown Syntax

* `email`
* `email_verified`
* `picture`
* `name`
* `nickname`
* `given_name`
* `family_name`

This means you can now refer to those attributes in the following way:

```text
Hello @@user.given_name@@ @@user.family_name@@
```

#### HTML + Liquid syntax

* `email`
* `email_verified`
* `picture`
* `name`
* `nickname`
* `given_name`
* `family_name`
* `app_metadata`
* `user_metadata`

This means you can now refer to use control flow statements and use the above attributes in the following way:

```text
{% if user.user_metadata.lang == 'es' %}
  Hola {{ user.name }}, ...
{% elsif user.user_metadata.lang == 'it' %}
  Ciao {{ user.name }}, ...
{% else %}
  Hi {{ user.name }}, ...
{% endif %}
```

### Verification Email

When users sign up or log in for the first time, they will be sent a verification email. Clicking on the verification link in the email sets the 'email verified' property of their user profile to `true`.

The following macros are available in the **Verification Email** template:

* `{application.name}`
* `{connection.name}`
* `{user.email}`

If you configure a **Redirect To** URL, the user will be directed to this URL after clicking the verification link. The following will be appended to the querystring:

```text
http://myapplication.com/my_page/?email=john%40contoso.com&message=Your%20email%20was%20verified.%20You%20can%20continue%20using%20the%20application.&success=true
```

### Welcome Email

Once a user verifies their email address, they will receive a **Welcome Email**. If you turn off the **Verification Email** feature, the **Welcome Email** will be sent to the user when they sign up (or login for the first time).

The following macros are available in the **Welcome Email** template:

* `{application.name}`
* `{connection.name}`
* `{user.email}`

### Change Password Confirmation Email

If a user requests a password change, they will receive a **Change Password Confirmation Email**. Until the user clicks the verification link contained in the email, the password will remain unchanged.

The following macros are available in the **Change Password Confirmation** email template:

* `{application.name}`
* `{connection.name}`
* `{user.email}`

If you configure a **Redirect To** URL, the user will be directed to this URL after clicking the verification link. The following will be appended to the querystring sent:

```text
http://myapplication.com/my_page/?success=true&message=You%20can%20now%20login%20to%20the%20application%20with%20the%20new%20password.
```

### Blocked Account Email

If a user attempts and fails to log in ten or more times from a specific IP address, the user's account becomes locked and they will receive a **Blocked Account** email. Once the user receives this email, they will not be able to log in from that IP address again until they click on the link contained in the email.

If the user successfully logs in before they exhaust their ten allowed attempts, the counter is reset.

The following macros are available in the **Blocked Account Email** template:

* `user.source_ip`
* `user.city`
* `user.country`
* `application.name`
* `connection.name`
