---
description: How to dynamically register Clients with Auth0, using the Management APIv2.
---

# Dynamic Client Registration

A [client](/clients) is traditionally registered with Auth0 manually, using the [dashboard](${manage_url}). The alternative is to have the client register itself dynamically, using [Management APIv2](/api/management/v2).

## Enable Dynamic Registration

By default, dynamic registration is disabled for all tenants. To change this, enable the `enable_dynamic_registration` toggle at your [Advanced Account Settings](${manage_url}/#/account/advanced).

## Client Registration Endpoint

Auth0 supports open Dynamic Registration, which means that the Client Registration Endpoint will accept a registration request without an [OAuth 2.0 Access Tokens](/tokens/access-token).

In order to dynamically register a client with Auth0, you need to send an HTTP `POST` message to the [/oidc/register endpoint](/api/management/v2#!/oidc/register).

To create a client with the name `My Example` and the callback URLs `https://client.example.com/callback` and `https://client.example.com/callback2`, you would use the following.

```har
{
  "method": "POST",
  "url": "https://${account.namespace}/oidc/register",
  "headers": [
    { "name": "Content-Type", "value": "application/json" }
  ],
  "postData": {
    "mimeType": "application/json",
    "text": "{\"name\":\"My Example\",\"redirect_uris\": [\"https://client.example.com/callback\", \"https://client.example.com/callback2\"]}"
  }
}
```

**NOTE**: You can set several attributes. For a complete listing refer to the [/oidc/register endpoint](/api/management/v2#!/oidc/register).

The response includes the basic client information.

```json
HTTP/1.1 201 Created
Content-Type: application/json
{
  "client_id": "s6B...qt3",
  "client_secret": "ZJY...vZk",
  "client_secret_expires_at": 0   
}
```

Where:
- `client_id`: Unique client identifier. This is the ID you will use while configuring your apps to use Auth0. It is generated by the system and it cannot be modified.
- `client_secret`: Alphanumeric 64-bit client secret. This value is used by clients to authenticate to the [token endpoint](/api/authentication#get-token) and for signing and validating [ID tokens](/tokens/id-token).
- `client_secret_expires_at`: Time at which the `client_secret` will expire. For Auth0 this value will always be zero (0) which means that the client never expires.

## Dynamic Client Characteristics

All clients, registered dynamically with Auth0, conform to the following:

- The [ID tokens](/tokens/id-token) generated for these clients, hold minimum user profile information. In order to retrieve the full user profile, you need to get an access token and use the [/userinfo endpoint](/api/authentication#get-user-info).

- These clients cannot use [ID tokens](/tokens/id-token) to invoke [Management APIv2](/api/management/v2) endpoints. Instead, they should [get a Management APIv2 Token](/api/management/v2/tokens#how-to-get-a-management-apiv2-token). Note that the client should be granted the `current_user_*` scopes, as required by each endpoint.


  - `read:current_user`: [List or search users](/api/management/v2#!/Users/get_users), [Get a user](/api/management/v2#!/Users/get_users_by_id), [Get user Guardian enrollments](/api/management/v2#!/Users/get_enrollments)
  - `update:current_user_metadata`: [Update a user](/api/management/v2#!/Users/patch_users_by_id), [Delete a user's multifactor provider](/api/management/v2#!/Users/delete_multifactor_by_provider)
  - `delete:current_user_metadata`: [Delete a user](/api/management/v2#!/Users/delete_users_by_id)
  - `create:current_user_metadata`: [Create a user](/api/management/v2#!/Users/post_users)
  - `create:current_user_device_credentials`: [Create a device public key](/api/management/v2#!/Device_Credentials/post_device_credentials)
  - `delete:current_user_device_credentials`: [Delete a device credential](/api/management/v2#!/Device_Credentials/delete_device_credentials_by_id)
  - `update:current_user_identities`: [Link a user account](/api/management/v2#!/Users/post_identities), [Unlink a user identity](/api/management/v2#!/Users/delete_provider_by_user_id)

Affected Endpoints
- /user_multifactor_provider (DELETE)

- They cannot have any connections, except for tenant level connections. To use tenant level connections, you need the latest version of [Lock](/libraries/lock).
