articles/onboarding/cloud-sprint.md, before:

---
sitemap: false
---

# Cloud Sprint

### Auth0 Customer Onboarding Program

Cloud Sprint is Auth0’s onboarding program for enterprise customers.  It helps you achieve value quickly with your Auth0 enterprise cloud subscription.  The 6 steps in the onboarding program set both you and Auth0 up for success.

### Cloud Sprint Overview

![Cloud Sprint Program Overview](/media/articles/onboarding/cloud-sprint-program-overview.png)

[Download the Cloud Sprint PDF here.](/media/articles/onboarding/cloud-sprint-onboarding.pdf)

*Hours allocated as “consulting” are delivered by our services team of system architects and software engineers for the purpose of guiding you through the common technical requirements, questions, advice and best practices to get successfully started with Auth0. If you have complex requirements needing deeper consulting and advice from our experts than the time allocated here will allow then ask your Sales Executive about purchasing Professional Services hours. These hours can be used for services including: Systems architecture design consulting; software development assistance related to integration of your application to Auth0; data migration from 3rd party/proprietary databases; performance & load testing.*

## Cloud Sprint - Further Details & Resources

### Step 1 - Welcome & Orientation

**When?**  This session is generally booked within 5 days of signing your subscription agreement.

**What?** Our Customer Success team are devoted to learning more about your business and what you want to achieve with Auth0.  In this short, casual session our Customer Success Managers will ask lots of questions and do lots of listening.

[Cloud Sprint - Get Started Form](https://docs.google.com/a/auth0.com/forms/d/1R0vq5DQxdbgdE0kkJPcruKXiFdZpddLV_P5wlTQwOfE/viewform) - Spend 5 minutes to fill out this form. This can help speed up the process of your subscription being applied your correct Auth0 account or help us provision a new one so you can access it ASAP!

[Auth0 support resources and guidance for enterprise customers.](/onboarding/enterprise-support) - Already developing?  No need to wait, you can plug in to our support resources immediately!

### Step 2 - Technical Discovery & Guidance
**When?**  This session is generally booked within 14 days of signing your subscription agreement.

**What?** The goal of this technical session is to send you forward on the best path.  It’s an opportunity for our Customer Success Engineers to understand your software architecture and integration plans and for your team to ask questions or seek advice.

[Common Architecture and Scenarios](/architecture-scenarios) - Quick guidance on common Business Scenarios and Application Configurations and the things you need to know to get started.

[Auth0 Learn Resources](https://auth0.com/learn/) - Explore these resources for guidance on topics including refresh tokens, 2FA, implementing SSO and migrating existing user data.

### Step 3 - Management Dashboard Guidance
**When?**  You can access self service resources immediately.  A live session is generally booked soon after the Technical Discovery & Guidance session.

**What?** The goal of this light technical session is to familiarize your team with the Auth0 Management Dashboard to understand both some of the administrative elements (e.g. setting up new Dashboard Admin users) as well as functional elements.

[Comprehensive Dashboard Walkthrough](https://youtu.be/hkMHBXRImPk?t=8m9s) - This 40 minute video walks you through many elements of the Auth0 Dashboard in a practical manner.

### Step 4 - Customer Integration
**When?**  Varies by customer and project.

**What?** This is where it all comes together and your team integrates Auth0 with your application/project.  Our support resources are always there to help and our Customer Success Managers will be following your progress and removing any blockers.

[Auth0 support resources and guidance for enterprise customers.](/onboarding/enterprise-support) - Our support resources are there to help during implementation and integration.

### Step 5 - Integration Best Practice Review
**When?**  Soon after your initial implementation or integration and before you move to beta/UAT or production.

**What?** In this technical session, our Customer Success Engineers will review your implementation and integration to ensure best practices are applied.  This often includes reviewing rules you’ve written, how you’re calling our APIs and answering any questions you may have.

[Auth0 Learn Resources](https://auth0.com/learn/) - Explore these resources for guidance on topics including refresh tokens, 2FA, implementing SSO and migrating existing user data.

Pre-Production Checklist:  This list will walk through basic checks to make in Auth0 to ensure a smooth production launch (Coming soon).

### Step 6 - Achieve First Value Goal
**When?**  30-45 days after signing your subscription agreement.

**What?** Ultimately, this is the goal our team will be focussed on moving towards as the outcome of the onboarding process.  It’s something we’ll agree on with you in Step 1.

Commit message:

Adding descriptions for integrations, onboarding and policies

articles/onboarding/cloud-sprint.md, after:

---
sitemap: false
description: An overview of the steps in the Cloud Sprint onboarding program.
---

# Cloud Sprint

### Auth0 Customer Onboarding Program

Cloud Sprint is Auth0’s onboarding program for enterprise customers.  It helps you achieve value quickly with your Auth0 enterprise cloud subscription.  The 6 steps in the onboarding program set both you and Auth0 up for success.

### Cloud Sprint Overview

![Cloud Sprint Program Overview](/media/articles/onboarding/cloud-sprint-program-overview.png)

[Download the Cloud Sprint PDF here.](/media/articles/onboarding/cloud-sprint-onboarding.pdf)

*Hours allocated as “consulting” are delivered by our services team of system architects and software engineers for the purpose of guiding you through the common technical requirements, questions, advice and best practices to get successfully started with Auth0. If you have complex requirements needing deeper consulting and advice from our experts than the time allocated here will allow then ask your Sales Executive about purchasing Professional Services hours. These hours can be used for services including: Systems architecture design consulting; software development assistance related to integration of your application to Auth0; data migration from 3rd party/proprietary databases; performance & load testing.*

## Cloud Sprint - Further Details & Resources

### Step 1 - Welcome & Orientation

**When?**  This session is generally booked within 5 days of signing your subscription agreement.

**What?** Our Customer Success team are devoted to learning more about your business and what you want to achieve with Auth0.  In this short, casual session our Customer Success Managers will ask lots of questions and do lots of listening.

[Cloud Sprint - Get Started Form](https://docs.google.com/a/auth0.com/forms/d/1R0vq5DQxdbgdE0kkJPcruKXiFdZpddLV_P5wlTQwOfE/viewform) - Spend 5 minutes to fill out this form. This can help speed up the process of your subscription being applied your correct Auth0 account or help us provision a new one so you can access it ASAP!

[Auth0 support resources and guidance for enterprise customers.](/onboarding/enterprise-support) - Already developing?  No need to wait, you can plug in to our support resources immediately!

### Step 2 - Technical Discovery & Guidance
**When?**  This session is generally booked within 14 days of signing your subscription agreement.

**What?** The goal of this technical session is to send you forward on the best path.  It’s an opportunity for our Customer Success Engineers to understand your software architecture and integration plans and for your team to ask questions or seek advice.

[Common Architecture and Scenarios](/architecture-scenarios) - Quick guidance on common Business Scenarios and Application Configurations and the things you need to know to get started.

[Auth0 Learn Resources](https://auth0.com/learn/) - Explore these resources for guidance on topics including refresh tokens, 2FA, implementing SSO and migrating existing user data.

### Step 3 - Management Dashboard Guidance
**When?**  You can access self service resources immediately.  A live session is generally booked soon after the Technical Discovery & Guidance session.

**What?** The goal of this light technical session is to familiarize your team with the Auth0 Management Dashboard to understand both some of the administrative elements (e.g. setting up new Dashboard Admin users) as well as functional elements.

[Comprehensive Dashboard Walkthrough](https://youtu.be/hkMHBXRImPk?t=8m9s) - This 40 minute video walks you through many elements of the Auth0 Dashboard in a practical manner.

### Step 4 - Customer Integration
**When?**  Varies by customer and project.

**What?** This is where it all comes together and your team integrates Auth0 with your application/project.  Our support resources are always there to help and our Customer Success Managers will be following your progress and removing any blockers.

[Auth0 support resources and guidance for enterprise customers.](/onboarding/enterprise-support) - Our support resources are there to help during implementation and integration.

### Step 5 - Integration Best Practice Review
**When?**  Soon after your initial implementation or integration and before you move to beta/UAT or production.

**What?** In this technical session, our Customer Success Engineers will review your implementation and integration to ensure best practices are applied.  This often includes reviewing rules you’ve written, how you’re calling our APIs and answering any questions you may have.

[Auth0 Learn Resources](https://auth0.com/learn/) - Explore these resources for guidance on topics including refresh tokens, 2FA, implementing SSO and migrating existing user data.

Pre-Production Checklist:  This list will walk through basic checks to make in Auth0 to ensure a smooth production launch (Coming soon).

### Step 6 - Achieve First Value Goal
**When?**  30-45 days after signing your subscription agreement.

**What?** Ultimately, this is the goal our team will be focussed on moving towards as the outcome of the onboarding process.  It’s something we’ll agree on with you in Step 1.
