articles/onboarding/sprint.md, before:

---
sitemap: false
---


# Auth0 Sprint

Sprint is Auth0’s onboarding program for enterprise customers.  It helps you achieve value quickly by ensuring your setup for success with your Auth0 subscription.

## Sprint Overview

#### Goal

During the onboarding process, the Auth0 Customer Success Team’s goal is to fulfil our obligation to:

* Have your subscription account correctly provisioned and setup in our systems (including the appliance deployment project in the case of on-premise/private-cloud managed service customers)
* Receive information from you that our Customer Success Managers will use to engage with you, measure success and manage your subscription throughout its various lifecycles
* Provide information to you around accessing and utilizing informational, training and support resources to meet your success goals
* Offer high level initial technical architecture guidance and plug you in to our Professional Services offerings if deeper guidance or hands-on development/implementation assistance is desired

The outcome of these obligations is a Success Plan that will be co-managed by your lead contact and the Auth0 Customer Success Management team.

#### Timing

The Sprint program isn’t bound by a specific time restriction, but rather it’s considered completed on delivery of the obligations and the Success Plan.  For customers with a Cloud subscription, this usually takes between 1 and 3 weeks.  For customers with an on-premise or private cloud managed service it can take up to 6 weeks.

#### What to expect

All customer's who subscribe to a 12 month+ enterprise subscription agreement (that is, a subscription agreement obtained through our enterprise or corporate sales team and not through the self service portal) will qualify and be offered access to Sprint Onboarding.  However, the engagement varies slightly based on your subscription plan and support option.

* All qualifying customers will have access to orientation, technical guidance and training resources via 1:many webinars, online docs and videos and will be guided by our customer success management team primarily over email during onboarding, along with 1:1 calls with customer success managers during key moments of your subscription lifecycle.
* Qualifying customers subscribing to our highest value subscription offerings and support plans will recieve an allocated Customer Success Manager, custom orientation, technical guidance/review and training sessions (generally delivered remotely over a web conference) and a deeper ongoing relationship with their Customer Success Manager.

Ask your sales executive which onboarding experience you'll qualify for when discussing your subscription options.

#### What happens after the Sprint program finishes?

At the conclusion of the Sprint program, your Customer Success Manager will continue to monitor your progress against the Success Plan and work with you throughout different stages of the subscription lifecycle or when things are not moving to plan.  This can mean a number of different activities and interactions depending on where you’re at in the development lifecycle (some customers leave Sprint in production, others may only be in development or beta) and what level of subscription you have.

Aside from the Customer Success Manager, you’ll have many other resources to move you along the journey as introduced to you in the Sprint program - this includes our support team, customer forums, documentation, videos and webinars.

Commit message:

Adding descriptions for integrations, onboarding and policies

articles/onboarding/sprint.md, after:

---
sitemap: false
description: An overview of Auth0’s onboarding program for enterprise customers.
---


# Auth0 Sprint

Sprint is Auth0’s onboarding program for enterprise customers.  It helps you achieve value quickly by ensuring your setup for success with your Auth0 subscription.

## Sprint Overview

#### Goal

During the onboarding process, the Auth0 Customer Success Team’s goal is to fulfil our obligation to:

* Have your subscription account correctly provisioned and setup in our systems (including the appliance deployment project in the case of on-premise/private-cloud managed service customers)
* Receive information from you that our Customer Success Managers will use to engage with you, measure success and manage your subscription throughout its various lifecycles
* Provide information to you around accessing and utilizing informational, training and support resources to meet your success goals
* Offer high level initial technical architecture guidance and plug you in to our Professional Services offerings if deeper guidance or hands-on development/implementation assistance is desired

The outcome of these obligations is a Success Plan that will be co-managed by your lead contact and the Auth0 Customer Success Management team.

#### Timing

The Sprint program isn’t bound by a specific time restriction, but rather it’s considered completed on delivery of the obligations and the Success Plan.  For customers with a Cloud subscription, this usually takes between 1 and 3 weeks.  For customers with an on-premise or private cloud managed service it can take up to 6 weeks.

#### What to expect

All customer's who subscribe to a 12 month+ enterprise subscription agreement (that is, a subscription agreement obtained through our enterprise or corporate sales team and not through the self service portal) will qualify and be offered access to Sprint Onboarding.  However, the engagement varies slightly based on your subscription plan and support option.

* All qualifying customers will have access to orientation, technical guidance and training resources via 1:many webinars, online docs and videos and will be guided by our customer success management team primarily over email during onboarding, along with 1:1 calls with customer success managers during key moments of your subscription lifecycle.
* Qualifying customers subscribing to our highest value subscription offerings and support plans will recieve an allocated Customer Success Manager, custom orientation, technical guidance/review and training sessions (generally delivered remotely over a web conference) and a deeper ongoing relationship with their Customer Success Manager.

Ask your sales executive which onboarding experience you'll qualify for when discussing your subscription options.

#### What happens after the Sprint program finishes?

At the conclusion of the Sprint program, your Customer Success Manager will continue to monitor your progress against the Success Plan and work with you throughout different stages of the subscription lifecycle or when things are not moving to plan.  This can mean a number of different activities and interactions depending on where you’re at in the development lifecycle (some customers leave Sprint in production, others may only be in development or beta) and what level of subscription you have.

Aside from the Customer Success Manager, you’ll have many other resources to move you along the journey as introduced to you in the Sprint program - this includes our support team, customer forums, documentation, videos and webinars.
