articles/api/authentication/_login.md, before:

# Login

## Social

<h5 class="code-snippet-title">Examples</h5>

```http
GET https://${account.namespace}/authorize?
  response_type=code|token&
  client_id=${account.clientId}&
  connection=YOUR_CONNECTION&
  redirect_uri=http://YOUR_APP_URL/callback&
  state=YOUR_STATE&
  additional-parameter=YOUR_ADDITIONAL_PARAMETERS
```

```javascript
<script src="${auth0js_url}"></script>
<script type="text/javascript">
  var auth0 = new Auth0({
    domain:       '${account.namespace}',
    clientID:     '${account.clientId}',
    callbackURL:  'https://YOUR_APP_URL/callback',
    responseType: 'code OR token'
  });
</script>

//trigger login with google
$('.login-google').click(function () {
  auth0.login({
    connection: 'google-oauth2'
  });
});

//trigger login with github
$('.login-github').click(function () {
  auth0.login({
    connection: 'github'
  });
});

//trigger login popup with google
$('.login-google-popup').click(function (e) {
  e.preventDefault();
  auth0.login({
    connection: 'google-oauth2',
    popup: true,
    popupOptions: {
      width: 450,
      height: 800
    }
  }, function(err, result) {
    if (err) {
      alert("something went wrong: " + err.message);
      return;
    }
    alert('Hello!');
  });
});

//trigger login requesting additional scopes with google
$('.login-google').click(function () {
  auth0.login({
    connection: 'google-oauth2',
    connection_scope: ['https://www.googleapis.com/auth/orkut', 'https://picasaweb.google.com/data/']
  });
});

// alternatively a comma separated list also works
$('.login-google').click(function () {
  auth0.login({
    connection: 'google-oauth2',
    connection_scope: 'https://www.googleapis.com/auth/orkut,https://picasaweb.google.com/data/'
  });
});
```

<%= include('../../_includes/_http-method', {
  "http_method": "GET",
  "path": "/authorize",
  "link": "#social"
}) %>

Use this endpoint to authenticate a user with a social provider. It will return a `302` redirect to the social provider specified in `connection`.

**NOTE:** Social connections only support browser-based (passive) authentication because most social providers don't allow a username and password to be entered into applications that they don't own. Therefore, the user will be redirected to the provider's sign in page.


### Query Parameters

| Parameter        | Description |
|:-----------------|:------------|
| `response_type`  | Use `code` for server side flows and `token` for client side flows |
| `client_id`      | The `client_id` of your client |
| `connection`     | The name of an identity provider configured to your client. If null, it will redirect to [Auth0 Login Page](https://auth0.com/#/login_page) and show the Login Widget. |
| `redirect_uri`   | `http://localhost/callback` |
| `state`          | Its value will be sent back. It should be used for XSRF and contextual information (like a return url). |
| `additional-parameter`  | Sent additional parameters to the provider. For example, `access_type=offline` (for Google refresh tokens) , `display=popup` (for Windows Live popup mode). |


### Remarks

- If `response_type=token`, after the user authenticates on the provider, it will redirect to your application `callback URL` passing the `access_token` and `id_token` in the address `location.hash`. This is used for Single Page Apps and also on Native Mobile SDKs.


### More Information

- [Custom Social Connections](/connections/social/oauth2)


## Social with Provider's Access Token

<h5 class="code-snippet-title">Examples</h5>

```http
POST https://${account.namespace}/oauth/access_token?
  client_id=${account.clientId}&
  access_token=TOKEN&
  connection=YOUR_CONNECTION&
  scope=YOUR_SCOPE
```

```shell
curl --request POST \
  --url 'https://${account.namespace}/oauth/access_token' \
  --header 'content-type: application/json' \
  --data '{"client_id":"${account.clientId}", "access_token":"", "connection":"", "scope":""}'
```

```javascript
var url = 'https://' + ${account.namespace} + '/oauth/access_token';
var params = 'client_id=${account.clientId}&access_token={access_token}&connection={connection}&scope={scope}';

var xhr = new XMLHttpRequest();

xhr.open('POST', url);
xhr.setRequestHeader('Content-Type', 'application/json');

xhr.onload = function() {
  if (xhr.status == 200) {
    fetchProfile();
  } else {
    alert("Request failed: " + xhr.statusText);
  }
};

xhr.send(params);
```

> RESPONSE SAMPLE:

```JSON
{
  "id_token": "eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1Qi...",
  "access_token": "A9CvPwFojaBI...",
  "token_type": "bearer"
}
```

<%= include('../../_includes/_http-method', {
  "http_method": "POST",
  "path": "/oauth/access_token",
  "link": "#social-with-provider-s-access-token"
}) %>

Given the social provider's `access_token` and the `connection`, this endpoint will authenticate the user with the provider and return a JSON with the `access_token` and an `id_token`. This endpoint only works for Facebook, Google, Twitter and Weibo.


### Query Parameters

| Parameter        | Description |
|:-----------------|:------------|
| `client_id`      | The `client_id` of your client |
| `access_token`   | The social provider's `access_token` |
| `connection`     | The name of an identity provider configured to your app |
| `scope`          | `openid` or `openid profile email` |


### Remarks

- The `profile` scope value requests access to the End-User's default profile Claims, which are: `name`, `family_name`, `given_name`, `middle_name`, `nickname`, `preferred_username`, `profile`, `picture`, `website`, `gender`, `birthdate`, `zoneinfo`, `locale`, and `updated_at`.
- The `email` scope value requests access to the `email` and `email_verified` Claims.


### More Information
- [Identity Provider Access Tokens](/tokens/idp)
- [Call an Identity Provider API](/tutorials/calling-an-external-idp-api)
- [Add scopes/permissions to call Identity Provider's APIs](/tutorials/adding-scopes-for-an-external-idp)


## Database/AD/LDAP (Passive)

<h5 class="code-snippet-title">Examples</h5>

```http
GET https://${account.namespace}/authorize?
  response_type=code|token&
  client_id=${account.clientId}&
  connection=YOUR_CONNECTION&
  redirect_uri=http://YOUR_APP_URL/callback&
  state=YOUR_STATE&
  additional-parameter=YOUR_ADDITIONAL_PARAMETERS
```

```javascript
<script src="${auth0js_url}"></script>
<script type="text/javascript">
  var auth0 = new Auth0({
    domain:       '${account.namespace}',
    clientID:     '${account.clientId}',
    callbackURL:  'https://YOUR_APP_URL/callback',
    responseType: 'code|token'
  });
</script>

//trigger login with a db connection
$('.login-dbconn').click(function () {
  auth0.login({
    connection: 'db-conn',
    username:   $('.username').val(),
    password:   $('.password').val(),
  });
});

//trigger login with a db connection and avoid the redirect
$('.login-dbconn').click(function () {
  auth0.login({
    connection: 'db-conn',
    username:   $('.username').val(),
    password:   $('.password').val(),
  },
  function (err, result) {
    // store in cookies
  });
});

//trigger login with offline mode support to get the refresh_token
$('.login-dbconn').click(function () {
  auth0.login({
    connection: 'db-conn',
    username:   $('.username').val(),
    password:   $('.password').val(),
    scope: 'openid offline_access'
  },
  function (err, result) {
    // store in cookies
    // result.refreshToken is sent because offline_access is set as a scope
  });
});
```

<%= include('../../_includes/_http-method', {
  "http_method": "GET",
  "path": "/authorize",
  "link": "#database-ad-ldap-passive-"
}) %>

Use this endpoint for browser based (passive) authentication. It returns a `302` redirect to [Auth0 Login Page](https://auth0.com/#/login_page) that will show the Login Widget where the user can login with email and password.

### Query Parameters

| Parameter        | Description |
|:-----------------|:------------|
| `response_type`  | Use `code` for server side flows and `token` for client side flows |
| `client_id`      | The `client_id` of your client |
| `connection`     | The name of the connection configured to your client. If null, it will redirect to [Auth0 Login Page](https://auth0.com/#/login_page) and show the Login Widget using the first database connection. |
| `redirect_uri`   | `http://localhost/callback` |
| `state`          | The `state` parameter will be sent back should be used for XSRF and contextual information (like a return url). |


### Remarks

- If `response_type=token`, after the user authenticates, it will redirect to your application `callback URL` passing the `access_token` and `id_token` in the address `location.hash`. This is used for Single Page Apps and also on Native Mobile SDKs.
- The main difference between passive and active authentication is that the former happens in the browser through the [Login Page](https://auth0.com/#/login_page) and the latter can be invoked from anywhere (a script, server to server, etc.).


### More Information
- [Database Identity Providers](/connections/database)
- [Rate Limits on User/Password Authentication](/connections/database/rate-limits)
- [Active Directory/LDAP Connector](/connector)

## Database/AD/LDAP (Active)

<h5 class="code-snippet-title">Examples</h5>

```http
POST https://${account.namespace}/oauth/ro?
  client_id=${account.clientId}&
  username=YOUR_USERNAME&
  password=YOUR_PASSWORD&
  id_token=TOKEN&
  connection=YOUR_CONNECTION&
  grant_type=password&
  scope=openid&
  device=YOUR_DEVICE
```

```shell
curl --request POST \
  --url 'https://${account.namespace}/oauth/ro' \
  --header 'content-type: application/json' \
  --data '{"client_id":"", "username":"", "password":"", "id_token":"", "connection":"", "grant_type":"password", "scope":"openid", "device":""}'

```

```javascript
<script src="${auth0js_url}"></script>
<script type="text/javascript">
  var auth0 = new Auth0({
    domain:       '${account.namespace}',
    clientID:     '${account.clientId}',
    callbackURL:  'https://YOUR_APP_URL/callback',
    responseType: 'token'
  });
</script>

//trigger login with a db connection
$('.login-dbconn').click(function () {
  auth0.login({
    connection: 'db-conn',
    username:   $('.username').val(),
    password:   $('.password').val(),
  });
});

//trigger login with a db connection and avoid the redirect
$('.login-dbconn').click(function () {
  auth0.login({
    connection: 'db-conn',
    username:   $('.username').val(),
    password:   $('.password').val(),
  },
  function (err, result) {
    // store in cookies
  });
});
```

> RESPONSE SAMPLE:

```json
{
  "id_token": "eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1Qi...",
  "access_token": "sMjTAT...",
  "token_type": "bearer"
}
```

<%= include('../../_includes/_http-method', {
  "http_method": "POST",
  "path": "/oauth/ro",
  "link": "#database-ad-ldap-active-"
}) %>

::: panel-warning Deprecation Notice
This endpoint will be deprecated. Customers will be notified and given ample time to migrate once an official deprecation notice is posted. The [POST /oauth/token { grant_type: password }](#resource-owner-password) should be used instead.
:::

Use this endpoint for API-based (active) authentication. Given the user credentials and the `connection` specified, it will do the authentication on the provider and return a JSON with the `access_token` and `id_token`.

### Query Parameters

| Parameter        | Description |
|:-----------------|:------------|
| `client_id`      | the `client_id` of your client |
| `username`       | username/email of the user to login |
| `password`       | password of the user to login |
| `id_token`       | |
| `connection`     | The name of the connection configured to your client |
| `grant_type`     | Set to `password` |
| `scope`          | Set to `openid` to retrieve also an `id_token`, leave null to get only an `access_token` |
| `device`         | |


### Remarks

- This endpoint only works for database connections, passwordless connections, Active Directory/LDAP, Windows Azure AD and ADFS.
- The main difference between passive and active authentication is that the former happens in the browser through the [Login Page](https://auth0.com/#/login_page) and the latter can be invoked from anywhere (a script, server to server, etc.).


### Error Codes

For the complete error code reference for this endpoint refer to [Errors > POST /oauth/ro](#post-oauth-ro).


### More Information
- [Database Identity Providers](/connections/database)
- [Rate Limits on User/Password Authentication](/connections/database/rate-limits)
- [Active Directory/LDAP Connector](/connector)



## Enterprise (SAML and Others)

<h5 class="code-snippet-title">Examples</h5>

```http
GET https://${account.namespace}/authorize?
  response_type=code|token&
  client_id=${account.clientId}&
  connection=YOUR_CONNECTION&
  redirect_uri=http://YOUR_APP_URL/callback&
  state=YOUR_STATE&
  additional-parameter=YOUR_ADDITIONAL_PARAMETERS&
```

```javascript
<script src="${auth0js_url}"></script>
<script type="text/javascript">
  var auth0 = new Auth0({
    domain:       '${account.namespace}',
    clientID:     '${account.clientId}',
    callbackURL:  'https://YOUR_APP_URL/callback',
    responseType: 'code|token'
  });
</script>

//trigger login with an enterprise connection
$('.login-microsoft').click(function () {
  auth0.login({
    connection: 'contoso.com'
  });
});
```

<%= include('../../_includes/_http-method', {
  "http_method": "GET",
  "path": "/authorize",
  "link": "#enterprise-saml-and-others-"
}) %>

Use this endpoint for passive authentication. It returns a `302` redirect to the SAML Provider (or Windows Azure AD and the rest, as specified in the `connection`) to enter their credentials.


### Query Parameters

| Parameter        | Description |
|:-----------------|:------------|
| `response_type`  | `code` for server side flows, `token` for client side flows |
| `client_id`      | The `client_id` of your client |
| `connection`     | The name of the connection configured to your client. If null, it will redirect to [Auth0 Login Page](https://auth0.com/#/login_page) and show the Login Widget using the first database connection. |
| `redirect_uri`   | `http://localhost/callback` |
| `state`          | The `state` parameter will be sent back should be used for XSRF and contextual information (like a return url). |


### Remarks

- If no `connection` is specified, it will redirect to [Auth0 Login Page](https://auth0.com/#/login_page) and show the Login Widget.
- If `response_type=token`, after the user authenticates, it will redirect to your application `callback URL` passing the `access_token` and `id_token` in the address `location.hash`. This is used for Single Page Apps and also on Native Mobile SDKs.
- Additional parameters can be sent that will be passthrough to the provider.
- The `state` parameter will be sent back should be used for XSRF and contextual information (like a return url).

### More Information
- [SAML](/protocols/saml)
- [Obtain a ClientId and Client Secret for Microsoft Azure Active Directory](/connections/enterprise/azure-active-directory)

Commit message:

Edit social login content and add error codes

articles/api/authentication/_login.md, after:

# Login

## Social

<h5 class="code-snippet-title">Examples</h5>

```http
GET https://${account.namespace}/authorize?
  response_type=code|token&
  client_id=${account.clientId}&
  connection=YOUR_CONNECTION&
  redirect_uri=http://YOUR_APP_URL/callback&
  state=OPAQUE_VALUE&
  additional-parameter=YOUR_ADDITIONAL_PARAMETERS
```

```javascript
<script src="${auth0js_url}"></script>
<script type="text/javascript">
  var auth0 = new Auth0({
    domain:       '${account.namespace}',
    clientID:     '${account.clientId}',
    callbackURL:  'https://YOUR_APP_URL/callback',
    responseType: 'code|token'
  });
</script>

//trigger login with google
$('.login-google').click(function () {
  auth0.login({
    connection: 'google-oauth2'
  });
});

//trigger login with github
$('.login-github').click(function () {
  auth0.login({
    connection: 'github'
  });
});

//trigger login popup with google
$('.login-google-popup').click(function (e) {
  e.preventDefault();
  auth0.login({
    connection: 'google-oauth2',
    popup: true,
    popupOptions: {
      width: 450,
      height: 800
    }
  }, function(err, result) {
    if (err) {
      alert("something went wrong: " + err.message);
      return;
    }
    alert('Hello!');
  });
});

//trigger login requesting additional scopes with google
$('.login-google').click(function () {
  auth0.login({
    connection: 'google-oauth2',
    connection_scope: ['https://www.googleapis.com/auth/orkut', 'https://picasaweb.google.com/data/']
  });
});

// alternatively a comma separated list also works
$('.login-google').click(function () {
  auth0.login({
    connection: 'google-oauth2',
    connection_scope: 'https://www.googleapis.com/auth/orkut,https://picasaweb.google.com/data/'
  });
});
```

<%= include('../../_includes/_http-method', {
  "http_method": "GET",
  "path": "/authorize",
  "link": "#social"
}) %>

Use this endpoint to authenticate a user with a social provider. It will return a `302` redirect to the social provider specified in `connection`.

**NOTE:** Social connections only support browser-based (passive) authentication because most social providers don't allow a username and password to be entered into applications that they don't own. Therefore, the user will be redirected to the provider's sign in page.


### Query Parameters

| Parameter        | Description |
|:-----------------|:------------|
| `response_type`  | Use `code` for server side flows and `token` for client side flows |
| `client_id`      | The `client_id` of your client |
| `connection`     | The name of a social identity provider configured to your client, for example `google-oauth2` or `facebook`. If null, it will redirect to [Auth0 Login Page](https://auth0.com/#/login_page) and show the Login Widget. |
| `redirect_uri`   | `http://YOUR_APP_URL/callback` |
| `state`          | An opaque string value that will be sent back after the authorization. It should be used for XSRF and contextual information (like a return url). |
| `additional-parameter`  | Use this to send additional parameters to the provider. For example, `access_type=offline` (for Google refresh tokens) , `display=popup` (for Windows Live popup mode). |


### Remarks

- If `response_type=token`, after the user authenticates on the provider, it will redirect to your application `callback URL` passing the `access_token` and `id_token` in the address `location.hash`. This is used for Single Page Apps and also on Native Mobile SDKs.


### More Information

- [Supported Social Identity Providers](/identityproviders#social)
- [Custom Social Connections](/connections/social/oauth2)


## Social with Provider's Access Token

<h5 class="code-snippet-title">Examples</h5>

```http
POST https://${account.namespace}/oauth/access_token?
  client_id=${account.clientId}&
  access_token=TOKEN&
  connection=YOUR_CONNECTION&
  scope=YOUR_SCOPE
```

```shell
curl --request POST \
  --url 'https://${account.namespace}/oauth/access_token' \
  --header 'content-type: application/json' \
  --data '{"client_id":"${account.clientId}", "access_token":"", "connection":"", "scope":""}'
```

```javascript
var url = 'https://' + ${account.namespace} + '/oauth/access_token';
var params = 'client_id=${account.clientId}&access_token={access_token}&connection={connection}&scope={scope}';

var xhr = new XMLHttpRequest();

xhr.open('POST', url);
xhr.setRequestHeader('Content-Type', 'application/json');

xhr.onload = function() {
  if (xhr.status == 200) {
    fetchProfile();
  } else {
    alert("Request failed: " + xhr.statusText);
  }
};

xhr.send(params);
```

> RESPONSE SAMPLE:

```JSON
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
{
  "id_token": "eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1Qi...",
  "access_token": "A9CvPwFojaBI...",
  "token_type": "bearer"
}
```

<%= include('../../_includes/_http-method', {
  "http_method": "POST",
  "path": "/oauth/access_token",
  "link": "#social-with-provider-s-access-token"
}) %>

Given the social provider's `access_token` and the `connection`, this endpoint will authenticate the user with the provider and return a JSON with the `access_token` and, optionally, an `id_token`. This endpoint only works for Facebook, Google, Twitter and Weibo.


### Query Parameters

| Parameter        | Description |
|:-----------------|:------------|
| `client_id`      | The `client_id` of your client |
| `access_token`   | The social provider's `access_token` |
| `connection`     | The name of an identity provider configured to your app |
| `scope`          | Use `openid` to get an `id_token`, or `openid profile email` to include user information in the `id_token`. If null, only an `access_token` will be returned. |


### Remarks

- The `profile` scope value requests access to the End-User's default profile Claims, which are: `name`, `family_name`, `given_name`, `middle_name`, `nickname`, `preferred_username`, `profile`, `picture`, `website`, `gender`, `birthdate`, `zoneinfo`, `locale`, and `updated_at`.
- The `email` scope value requests access to the `email` and `email_verified` Claims.


### Error Codes

For the complete error code reference for this endpoint refer to [Errors > POST /oauth/access_token](#post-oauth-access-token).


### More Information
- [Call an Identity Provider API](/tutorials/calling-an-external-idp-api)
- [Identity Provider Access Tokens](/tokens/idp)
- [Add scopes/permissions to call Identity Provider's APIs](/tutorials/adding-scopes-for-an-external-idp)


## Database/AD/LDAP (Passive)

<h5 class="code-snippet-title">Examples</h5>

```http
GET https://${account.namespace}/authorize?
  response_type=code|token&
  client_id=${account.clientId}&
  connection=YOUR_CONNECTION&
  redirect_uri=http://YOUR_APP_URL/callback&
  state=YOUR_STATE&
  additional-parameter=YOUR_ADDITIONAL_PARAMETERS
```

```javascript
<script src="${auth0js_url}"></script>
<script type="text/javascript">
  var auth0 = new Auth0({
    domain:       '${account.namespace}',
    clientID:     '${account.clientId}',
    callbackURL:  'https://YOUR_APP_URL/callback',
    responseType: 'code|token'
  });
</script>

//trigger login with a db connection
$('.login-dbconn').click(function () {
  auth0.login({
    connection: 'db-conn',
    username:   $('.username').val(),
    password:   $('.password').val(),
  });
});

//trigger login with a db connection and avoid the redirect
$('.login-dbconn').click(function () {
  auth0.login({
    connection: 'db-conn',
    username:   $('.username').val(),
    password:   $('.password').val(),
  },
  function (err, result) {
    // store in cookies
  });
});

//trigger login with offline mode support to get the refresh_token
$('.login-dbconn').click(function () {
  auth0.login({
    connection: 'db-conn',
    username:   $('.username').val(),
    password:   $('.password').val(),
    scope: 'openid offline_access'
  },
  function (err, result) {
    // store in cookies
    // result.refreshToken is sent because offline_access is set as a scope
  });
});
```

<%= include('../../_includes/_http-method', {
  "http_method": "GET",
  "path": "/authorize",
  "link": "#database-ad-ldap-passive-"
}) %>

Use this endpoint for browser based (passive) authentication. It returns a `302` redirect to [Auth0 Login Page](https://auth0.com/#/login_page) that will show the Login Widget where the user can login with email and password.

### Query Parameters

| Parameter        | Description |
|:-----------------|:------------|
| `response_type`  | Use `code` for server side flows and `token` for client side flows |
| `client_id`      | The `client_id` of your client |
| `connection`     | The name of the connection configured to your client. If null, it will redirect to [Auth0 Login Page](https://auth0.com/#/login_page) and show the Login Widget using the first database connection. |
| `redirect_uri`   | `http://localhost/callback` |
| `state`          | The `state` parameter will be sent back should be used for XSRF and contextual information (like a return url). |


### Remarks

- If `response_type=token`, after the user authenticates, it will redirect to your application `callback URL` passing the `access_token` and `id_token` in the address `location.hash`. This is used for Single Page Apps and also on Native Mobile SDKs.
- The main difference between passive and active authentication is that the former happens in the browser through the [Login Page](https://auth0.com/#/login_page) and the latter can be invoked from anywhere (a script, server to server, etc.).


### More Information
- [Database Identity Providers](/connections/database)
- [Rate Limits on User/Password Authentication](/connections/database/rate-limits)
- [Active Directory/LDAP Connector](/connector)

## Database/AD/LDAP (Active)

<h5 class="code-snippet-title">Examples</h5>

```http
POST https://${account.namespace}/oauth/ro?
  client_id=${account.clientId}&
  username=YOUR_USERNAME&
  password=YOUR_PASSWORD&
  id_token=TOKEN&
  connection=YOUR_CONNECTION&
  grant_type=password&
  scope=openid&
  device=YOUR_DEVICE
```

```shell
curl --request POST \
  --url 'https://${account.namespace}/oauth/ro' \
  --header 'content-type: application/json' \
  --data '{"client_id":"", "username":"", "password":"", "id_token":"", "connection":"", "grant_type":"password", "scope":"openid", "device":""}'

```

```javascript
<script src="${auth0js_url}"></script>
<script type="text/javascript">
  var auth0 = new Auth0({
    domain:       '${account.namespace}',
    clientID:     '${account.clientId}',
    callbackURL:  'https://YOUR_APP_URL/callback',
    responseType: 'token'
  });
</script>

//trigger login with a db connection
$('.login-dbconn').click(function () {
  auth0.login({
    connection: 'db-conn',
    username:   $('.username').val(),
    password:   $('.password').val(),
  });
});

//trigger login with a db connection and avoid the redirect
$('.login-dbconn').click(function () {
  auth0.login({
    connection: 'db-conn',
    username:   $('.username').val(),
    password:   $('.password').val(),
  },
  function (err, result) {
    // store in cookies
  });
});
```

> RESPONSE SAMPLE:

```json
{
  "id_token": "eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1Qi...",
  "access_token": "sMjTAT...",
  "token_type": "bearer"
}
```

<%= include('../../_includes/_http-method', {
  "http_method": "POST",
  "path": "/oauth/ro",
  "link": "#database-ad-ldap-active-"
}) %>

::: panel-warning Deprecation Notice
This endpoint will be deprecated. Customers will be notified and given ample time to migrate once an official deprecation notice is posted. The [POST /oauth/token { grant_type: password }](#resource-owner-password) should be used instead.
:::

Use this endpoint for API-based (active) authentication. Given the user credentials and the `connection` specified, it will do the authentication on the provider and return a JSON with the `access_token` and `id_token`.

### Query Parameters

| Parameter        | Description |
|:-----------------|:------------|
| `client_id`      | the `client_id` of your client |
| `username`       | username/email of the user to login |
| `password`       | password of the user to login |
| `id_token`       | |
| `connection`     | The name of the connection configured to your client |
| `grant_type`     | Set to `password` |
| `scope`          | Set to `openid` to retrieve also an `id_token`, leave null to get only an `access_token` |
| `device`         | |


### Remarks

- This endpoint only works for database connections, passwordless connections, Active Directory/LDAP, Windows Azure AD and ADFS.
- The main difference between passive and active authentication is that the former happens in the browser through the [Login Page](https://auth0.com/#/login_page) and the latter can be invoked from anywhere (a script, server to server, etc.).


### Error Codes

For the complete error code reference for this endpoint refer to [Errors > POST /oauth/ro](#post-oauth-ro).


### More Information
- [Database Identity Providers](/connections/database)
- [Rate Limits on User/Password Authentication](/connections/database/rate-limits)
- [Active Directory/LDAP Connector](/connector)



## Enterprise (SAML and Others)

<h5 class="code-snippet-title">Examples</h5>

```http
GET https://${account.namespace}/authorize?
  response_type=code|token&
  client_id=${account.clientId}&
  connection=YOUR_CONNECTION&
  redirect_uri=http://YOUR_APP_URL/callback&
  state=YOUR_STATE&
  additional-parameter=YOUR_ADDITIONAL_PARAMETERS&
```

```javascript
<script src="${auth0js_url}"></script>
<script type="text/javascript">
  var auth0 = new Auth0({
    domain:       '${account.namespace}',
    clientID:     '${account.clientId}',
    callbackURL:  'https://YOUR_APP_URL/callback',
    responseType: 'code|token'
  });
</script>

//trigger login with an enterprise connection
$('.login-microsoft').click(function () {
  auth0.login({
    connection: 'contoso.com'
  });
});
```

<%= include('../../_includes/_http-method', {
  "http_method": "GET",
  "path": "/authorize",
  "link": "#enterprise-saml-and-others-"
}) %>

Use this endpoint for passive authentication. It returns a `302` redirect to the SAML Provider (or Windows Azure AD and the rest, as specified in the `connection`) to enter their credentials.


### Query Parameters

| Parameter        | Description |
|:-----------------|:------------|
| `response_type`  | `code` for server side flows, `token` for client side flows |
| `client_id`      | The `client_id` of your client |
| `connection`     | The name of the connection configured to your client. If null, it will redirect to [Auth0 Login Page](https://auth0.com/#/login_page) and show the Login Widget using the first database connection. |
| `redirect_uri`   | `http://localhost/callback` |
| `state`          | The `state` parameter will be sent back should be used for XSRF and contextual information (like a return url). |


### Remarks

- If no `connection` is specified, it will redirect to [Auth0 Login Page](https://auth0.com/#/login_page) and show the Login Widget.
- If `response_type=token`, after the user authenticates, it will redirect to your application `callback URL` passing the `access_token` and `id_token` in the address `location.hash`. This is used for Single Page Apps and also on Native Mobile SDKs.
- Additional parameters can be sent that will be passthrough to the provider.
- The `state` parameter will be sent back should be used for XSRF and contextual information (like a return url).

### More Information
- [SAML](/protocols/saml)
- [Obtain a ClientId and Client Secret for Microsoft Azure Active Directory](/connections/enterprise/azure-active-directory)
