articles/libraries/lock/v10/custom-signup.md, before:

---
description: How to customize the user sign-up form with additional fields using Lock or the Auth0 API.
---

# Custom Signup

In some cases, you may want to customize the user sign up form with more fields other than email and password.

## Using Lock

Lock 10 supports [custom fields signup](/libraries/lock/v10/customization#additionalsignupfields-array-).

![custom signup fields](/media/articles/libraries/lock/v10/signupcustom.png)

## Using the API

### 1. Create a Sign Up form to capture custom fields

```html
<form id="signup">
  <fieldset>
    <legend>Sign up</legend>
    <p>
      <input type="email" id="signup-email" placeholder="Email" required/>
    </p>
    <p>
      <input type="password" id="signup-password" placeholder="Password"
             required/>
    </p>
    <p>
      <input type="text" id="name" placeholder="Full name" required/>
    </p>
    <p>
      <input type="text" id="color" placeholder="Favorite color"/>
    </p>
    <input type="submit" value="Sign up"/>
  </fieldset>
</form>
```

**NOTE**:  `name` and `color` are custom fields.

::: panel-info Custom field validation
There is currently no way to validate user-supplied custom fields when signing up. Validation must be done from an Auth0 [Rule](/rules) at login, or with custom logic in your application.
:::

### 2. Send the Form Data

Send a POST request to the [/dbconnections/signup](/api/authentication#!#post--dbconnections-signup) endpoint in Auth0. You will need to send your `ClientId`, the `email` and `password` of the user being signed up, and the custom fields as part of `user_metadata`.

```har
{
  "method": "POST",
  "url": "https://${account.namespace}/dbconnections/signup",
  "headers": [{
    "name": "Content-Type",
    "value": "application/json"
  }],
  "postData": {
    "mimeType": "application/json",
    "text": "{\"client_id\": \"${account.clientId}\",\"email\": \"$('#signup-email').val()\",\"password\": \"$('#signup-password').val()\",\"user_metadata\": {\"name\": \"john\",\"color\": \"red\"}}"
  }
}
```

## Custom Fields Limitations

When your users sign up, the custom fields are sent as part of `user_metadata`. The limitations of this field are:

* `user_metadata` must contain no more than 10 fields;
* `user_metadata.field` must be a string;
* `user_metadata.field.value.length` must be fewer than 500 characters;
* `user_metadata.field.length` must be fewer than 100 characters.

## Redirect mode

After a successful login, Auth0 will redirect the user to your configured callback URL with a JWT (`id_token`) in the query string.

**NOTE** To learn more about the differences between popup and redirect modes, please refer to [this document](/libraries/lock/v10/popup-mode).

```js
window.auth0 = new Auth0({
  domain: '${account.namespace}',
  clientID: '${account.clientId}',
  // Callback made to your server's callback endpoint
  callbackURL: '${account.callback}',
});
```

Your server will then need to call APIv2 to add the necessary custom fields to the user's profile.

## Add Username to Sign Up form

One common signup customization is to add a `username` to the signup.

To enable this feature, turn on the `Requires Username` setting on the [Connections > Database](${manage_url}/#/connections/database/) section of the dashboard under the **Settings** tab for the connection you wish to edit.

Once this has been set, when a user is created manually in the Auth0 dashboard, the screen where users enter their information will prompt them for both an email and a username.

Similarly, the Lock widget in sign up mode will prompt for a username, email and password.

Then users can log in with Username and Password.

## Optional: Verifying password strength

Password policies for database connections can be configured in the dashboard. For more information, see: [Password Strength in Auth0 Database Connections](/connections/database/password-strength).

The configured password policies, along with other connection information, can be retrieved publicly by accessing a JSONP file at the following URL:

`https://cdn.auth0.com/client/${account.clientId}.js`

This file can then be parsed client-side to find the current password policy configured in the dashboard. For an example, see: [Custom signup with password policy](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-password-policy-sample).

Commit message:

Adding information on social IDP custom field collection with Lock

articles/libraries/lock/v10/custom-signup.md, after:

---
description: How to customize the user sign-up form with additional fields using Lock or the Auth0 API.
---

# Custom Signup

In some cases, you may want to customize the user sign up form with more fields other than email and password.

## Using Lock

Lock 10 supports [custom fields signup](/libraries/lock/v10/customization#additionalsignupfields-array-).

![custom signup fields](/media/articles/libraries/lock/v10/signupcustom.png)

Lock's `additionalSignupFields` option will only work with database signups. For signups using social identity providers, collecting these fields in the same manner is not possible with Lock, but there are two other options to allow social IDP signups with Lock while still collecting additional custom fields.

### Redirect Rules

One way to use social IDP signups with Lock and collect custom fields is to use [redirect rules](/rules/redirect) to redirect the user to another page (Ideally, a [webtask](https://webtask.io/docs) or a custom page hosted by you) where you ask for extra information,  and then redirect back to finish the authentication transaction.

### Progressive Profiling

Another way to collect custom field data when signing users up with social providers is via progressive profiling. Progressive profiling is a way by which you can slowly build up user profiles over time. You collect the bare minimum details upon signup, but when a user later interacts with your app, you collect a small amount of data (perhaps one question) each time until their profile is complete. This allows for collecting the desired information, but with less friction at signup, since the goal of using a social IDP for signup is, at least in part, making it more effortless and streamlined for the user.

For further reference, here is our [documentation on progressive profiling](/user-profile/progressive-profiling) as well as an Auth0 [blog post on progressive profiling](https://auth0.com/blog/progressive-profiling/).

## Using the API

### 1. Create a Sign Up form to capture custom fields

```html
<form id="signup">
  <fieldset>
    <legend>Sign up</legend>
    <p>
      <input type="email" id="signup-email" placeholder="Email" required/>
    </p>
    <p>
      <input type="password" id="signup-password" placeholder="Password"
             required/>
    </p>
    <p>
      <input type="text" id="name" placeholder="Full name" required/>
    </p>
    <p>
      <input type="text" id="color" placeholder="Favorite color"/>
    </p>
    <input type="submit" value="Sign up"/>
  </fieldset>
</form>
```

**NOTE**:  `name` and `color` are custom fields.

::: panel-info Custom field validation
There is currently no way to validate user-supplied custom fields when signing up. Validation must be done from an Auth0 [Rule](/rules) at login, or with custom logic in your application.
:::

### 2. Send the Form Data

Send a POST request to the [/dbconnections/signup](/api/authentication#!#post--dbconnections-signup) endpoint in Auth0. You will need to send your `ClientId`, the `email` and `password` of the user being signed up, and the custom fields as part of `user_metadata`.

```har
{
  "method": "POST",
  "url": "https://${account.namespace}/dbconnections/signup",
  "headers": [{
    "name": "Content-Type",
    "value": "application/json"
  }],
  "postData": {
    "mimeType": "application/json",
    "text": "{\"client_id\": \"${account.clientId}\",\"email\": \"$('#signup-email').val()\",\"password\": \"$('#signup-password').val()\",\"user_metadata\": {\"name\": \"john\",\"color\": \"red\"}}"
  }
}
```

## Custom Fields Limitations

When your users sign up, the custom fields are sent as part of `user_metadata`. The limitations of this field are:

* `user_metadata` must contain no more than 10 fields;
* `user_metadata.field` must be a string;
* `user_metadata.field.value.length` must be fewer than 500 characters;
* `user_metadata.field.length` must be fewer than 100 characters.

## Redirect mode

After a successful login, Auth0 will redirect the user to your configured callback URL with a JWT (`id_token`) in the query string.

**NOTE** To learn more about the differences between popup and redirect modes, please refer to [this document](/libraries/lock/v10/popup-mode).

```js
window.auth0 = new Auth0({
  domain: '${account.namespace}',
  clientID: '${account.clientId}',
  // Callback made to your server's callback endpoint
  callbackURL: '${account.callback}',
});
```

Your server will then need to call APIv2 to add the necessary custom fields to the user's profile.

## Add Username to Sign Up form

One common signup customization is to add a `username` to the signup.

To enable this feature, turn on the `Requires Username` setting on the [Connections > Database](${manage_url}/#/connections/database/) section of the dashboard under the **Settings** tab for the connection you wish to edit.

Once this has been set, when a user is created manually in the Auth0 dashboard, the screen where users enter their information will prompt them for both an email and a username.

Similarly, the Lock widget in sign up mode will prompt for a username, email and password.

Then users can log in with Username and Password.

## Optional: Verifying password strength

Password policies for database connections can be configured in the dashboard. For more information, see: [Password Strength in Auth0 Database Connections](/connections/database/password-strength).

The configured password policies, along with other connection information, can be retrieved publicly by accessing a JSONP file at the following URL:

`https://cdn.auth0.com/client/${account.clientId}.js`

This file can then be parsed client-side to find the current password policy configured in the dashboard. For an example, see: [Custom signup with password policy](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-password-policy-sample).
