articles/api/management/v1/use-cases.md, before:

---
description: This page lists the API features that are only available in API v1.
---

# API v1 Use Cases

Currently, there are API features and functionality that are only available in the [Management API v1](/api/v1). If your business process or configuration requires these features, please continue to use the API v1.

The features only available in API v1 include:

* [Active Directory Connector Monitoring](#active-directory-connector-monitoring)
* [Client Users](#client-users)
* [Email](#email)
* [Enterprise Users/Directory Searching](#enterprise-users/directory-searching)
* [Impersonation](#impersonation)
* [Searching via the Auth0 Appliance](#searching-via-the-auth0-appliance)

## Active Directory Connector Monitoring

In API v1, there is a `GET` endpoint that allows you to monitor the status of your Active Directory Connector:

GET `/api/connections/{AUTH0_CONNECTION}/socket`

## Client Users

With API v1, after authenticating with the `client_id` and `client_secret` of an application, you can make a `GET` call to the appropriate Users endpoint to return only those users that belong to any specified client connection that is enabled for that application.

[`/api/clients/{client-id}/users`](/api/v1#!#get--api-clients--client-id--users)

## Email

With API v1, you can use the `PATCH` email endpoint to update email templates as part of your automation process.

[`/api/emails/{email-template-name}`](/api/v1#put--api-emails--email-template-name-)

## Enterprise Users/Directory Searching

API v1 allows you to search directly for users authenticated using enterprise connections, such as Active Directory or Azure Active Directory.

* All users from a specific directory:
[`/api/connections/{connection}/users`](/api/v1#get--api-connections--connection--users)

* Specific users from a given directory:
[`/api/connections/{connection}/users?search={criteria}`](/api/v1#get--api-connections--connection--users-search--criteria-)

* All users from all enterprise directories: 
GET `/api/enterpriseconnections/users?search={criteria}`

## Impersonation

API v1 includes an impersonation endpoint that generates a link that can be used only once to log in as a specific user for troubleshooting purposes.

[`/users/{user_id}/impersonate`](/auth-api#impersonation)

## Searching via the Auth0 Appliance

In API v1, you can perform a "starts with" search for users by name or email:

[`/api/users?search={criteria}`](/api/v1#!#get--api-users-search--criteria-).

This functionality works for both cloud instances and the Auth0 appliance.

In API v2, the search operates with reduced functionality and does not currently support the Lucene query syntax.

Commit message:

Clarify which API is being referenced
Fixing found instances of the Management API being referred to as just
"API v1" or "API v2", this is confusing since we have multiple APIs
(Management and Auth)

https://trello.com/c/yrQUB5xN/71-management-api-should-never-be-refered-
to-as-just-api-v1-or-api-v2-this-is-confusing-since-we-have-multiple-api
s-management-and-

articles/api/management/v1/use-cases.md, after:

---
description: This page lists the API features that are only available in Management API v1.
---

# Management API v1 Use Cases

Currently, there are API features and functionality that are only available in the [Management API v1](/api/v1). If your business process or configuration requires these features, please continue to use the API v1.

The features only available in Management API v1 include:

* [Active Directory Connector Monitoring](#active-directory-connector-monitoring)
* [Client Users](#client-users)
* [Email](#email)
* [Enterprise Users/Directory Searching](#enterprise-users/directory-searching)
* [Impersonation](#impersonation)
* [Searching via the Auth0 Appliance](#searching-via-the-auth0-appliance)

## Active Directory Connector Monitoring

In Management API v1, there is a `GET` endpoint that allows you to monitor the status of your Active Directory Connector:

GET `/api/connections/{AUTH0_CONNECTION}/socket`

## Client Users

With Management API v1, after authenticating with the `client_id` and `client_secret` of an application, you can make a `GET` call to the appropriate Users endpoint to return only those users that belong to any specified client connection that is enabled for that application.

[`/api/clients/{client-id}/users`](/api/v1#!#get--api-clients--client-id--users)

## Email

With Management API v1, you can use the `PATCH` email endpoint to update email templates as part of your automation process.

[`/api/emails/{email-template-name}`](/api/v1#put--api-emails--email-template-name-)

## Enterprise Users/Directory Searching

Management API v1 allows you to search directly for users authenticated using enterprise connections, such as Active Directory or Azure Active Directory.

* All users from a specific directory:
[`/api/connections/{connection}/users`](/api/v1#get--api-connections--connection--users)

* Specific users from a given directory:
[`/api/connections/{connection}/users?search={criteria}`](/api/v1#get--api-connections--connection--users-search--criteria-)

* All users from all enterprise directories: 
GET `/api/enterpriseconnections/users?search={criteria}`

## Impersonation

Management API v1 includes an impersonation endpoint that generates a link that can be used only once to log in as a specific user for troubleshooting purposes.

[`/users/{user_id}/impersonate`](/auth-api#impersonation)

## Searching via the Auth0 Appliance

In Management API v1, you can perform a "starts with" search for users by name or email:

[`/api/users?search={criteria}`](/api/v1#!#get--api-users-search--criteria-).

This functionality works for both cloud instances and the Auth0 appliance.

In Management API v2, the search operates with reduced functionality and does not currently support the Lucene query syntax.
