articles/tutorials/how-to-update-applications-client-secret.md, before:

---
description: This page lists different ways of how to update your application's client secret.
---

# Changing your application's client_secret

The `client_secret` of an application protects a service by only giving tokens to authorized applications. Client secrets should be protected, and if your `client_secret` has been compromised then you will need to generate a new one. Remember that all authorized apps will need to be updated with the new `client_secret`.

## Changing your client_secret in the dashboard

You can change your `client_secret` under [Applications](${manage_url}/#/applications) in the dashboard. Choose the application you wish to edit by clicking on the **Settings** gear icon or the application name. You can edit the **Client Secret** field, and when you are finished, click the **SAVE CHANGES** button at the bottom of the page.

## Updating authorized applications

Once you have changed your application's `client_secret` you will need to update any authorized applications to have the new value. To make sure the authorized application does not have any downtime with connecting to your application, we suggest you store the new `client_secret` as a fallback to the previous secret. So if the connection does not work with the old secret, use the new secret. The secrets can be stored in a list or similar structure to keep track of keys until they are no longer needed. Once you are sure an old secret is no longer used, it can safely be taken out of the application.

## How to generate a new client_secret

If your `client_secret` needs to be replaced you will need to generate a new one on your own. It should be a cryptographically strong random string. There are many ways to do this such as using a library that creates a GUID, a hashing function, etc.

Here is an example of a command you can use to generate a random string:

`dd if=/dev/random bs=48 count=1`

## Using the Management API to set the new client_secret

You can also change your application's `client_secret` by using [Update a client](/api/v2#!/Clients/patch_clients_by_id) in the Management API.  Set the `id` of the client you are updating, and then in the `body` section enter your new `client_secret` as a JSON field.

**Note:** The `client_secret` can only be updated with the `update:client_keys` scope.

You can get your `client_id` and `client_secret` by choosing your application in the [Applications](${manage_url}/#/applications) section of the dashboard.

Or you can update a `client_secret` by creating your own request to the API:

```har
{
  "method": "PATCH",
  "url": "https://YOURACCOUNT.auth0.com/api/v2/clients/YOUR_CLIENT_ID",
  "headers": [{
    "name": "Content-Type",
    "value": "application/json"
  }],
  "postData": {
    "mimeType": "application/json",
    "text": "{\"client_secret\": \"NEW_CLIENT_SECRET\"}"
  }
}
```

**Note:** If the client uses a Base64-encoded client secret, then the updated one has to be encoded as well.

Commit message:

Add info on new endpoint

articles/tutorials/how-to-update-applications-client-secret.md, after:

---
description: This page lists different ways of how to update your application's client secret.
---

# Changing your application's client_secret

The `client_secret` of an application protects a service by only giving tokens to authorized applications. Client secrets should be protected, and if your `client_secret` has been compromised then you will need to generate a new one. Remember that all authorized apps will need to be updated with the new `client_secret`.

## Changing your client_secret in the dashboard

You can change your `client_secret` under [Clients](${manage_url}/#/clients) in the dashboard. Choose the client you wish to edit by clicking on the **Settings** gear icon or the client name. You can edit the **Client Secret** field, and when you are finished, click the **SAVE CHANGES** button at the bottom of the page.

## Updating authorized clients

Once you have changed your client's `client_secret` you will need to update any authorized clients to have the new value. To make sure the authorized client does not have any downtime with connecting to your client, we suggest you store the new `client_secret` as a fallback to the previous secret. So if the connection does not work with the old secret, use the new secret. The secrets can be stored in a list or similar structure to keep track of keys until they are no longer needed. Once you are sure an old secret is no longer used, it can safely be taken out of the client.

## How to generate a new client_secret

If your `client_secret` needs to be replaced you will need to generate a new one on your own. It should be a cryptographically strong random string. There are many ways to do this such as using a library that creates a GUID, a hashing function, etc.

Here is an example of a command you can use to generate a random string:

`dd if=/dev/random bs=48 count=1`

## Using the Management API to set the new Client Secret

You can change your client's secret by using [Rotate Secret API endpoint](/api/v2/clients/{id}/rotate-secret). This will rotate your (non encoded) secret with a secret generated by Auth0. This is the recommended approach, since we ensure a safe secret.

If you are still using a Base64-encoded client secret then your new secret needs to be encoded as well. To change your client's secret with a new encoded one, you can use the [Update a client API endpoint](/api/v2#!/Clients/patch_clients_by_id).  Set the `id` of the client you are updating, and then in the `body` section enter your new `client_secret` as a JSON field.

**Note:** The `client_secret` can only be updated with the `update:client_keys` scope.

You can get your `client_id` and `client_secret` by choosing your client in the [Clients](${manage_url}/#/clients) section of the dashboard.

Or you can update a `client_secret` by creating your own request to the API:

```har
{
  "method": "PATCH",
  "url": "https://YOURACCOUNT.auth0.com/api/v2/clients/YOUR_CLIENT_ID",
  "headers": [{
    "name": "Content-Type",
    "value": "application/json"
  }],
  "postData": {
    "mimeType": "application/json",
    "text": "{\"client_secret\": \"NEW_CLIENT_SECRET\"}"
  }
}
```

Remember that if your client uses a Base64-encoded client secret, then the updated one has to be encoded as well.
