articles/libraries/lock/index.md, before:

---
url: /libraries/lock
description: Lock 10 is the easiest and best way to secure your web applications! This widget is a simple way to integrate Auth0 into existing projects and provide the frictionless login and signup experience that you want for your app.
---

# Lock

You're looking at the documentation for the _easiest_ way of securing your website and mobile apps!

Lock is an embeddable login form, which is [configurable to your needs][lock-customization] and ready for use on mobile devices. It's easier than ever to add social identity providers to Lock, as well, allowing your users to login seamlessly using whichever providers make sense for your application. Check out one of the pages listed below to delve into details about Lock usage, if you know what you are looking for, or continue down this page for a basic installation and usage guide!

<%= include('_includes/_lock-version') %>

<%= include('_includes/_lock-toc') %>

## Lock 10 Installation

You can install Lock 10 via several methods. Select any of the following installation sources that best suit your environment and application.

### Installation Sources

Install via [npm](https://npmjs.org):

```sh
npm install auth0-lock
```

Install via [bower](http://bower.io):

```sh
bower install auth0-lock
```

Include via our CDN:

```html
<!-- Latest minor release -->
<script src="${lock_url}"></script>

<!-- Latest patch release (recommended for production) -->
<script src="http://cdn.auth0.com/js/lock/10.x.y/lock.min.js"></script>
```

**NOTE**: Replace `.x` and `.y` with the latest minor and patch release numbers from the [Lock Github repository](https://github.com/auth0/lock) for production environments.

### Mobile

If you are targeting mobile audiences, Auth0 recommendeds that you add the following meta tag to your application's `head`:

```html
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1, maximum-scale=1, user-scalable=0"/>
```

### Bundling Dependencies

If you are using browserify or webpack to build your project and bundle its dependencies, after installing the `auth0-lock` module, you will need to bundle it with all its dependencies. Examples are available for [Browserify][example-browserify] and [webpack][example-webpack].

## Usage

### Implementing Lock

```js
// Initiating our Auth0Lock
var lock = new Auth0Lock(
  '${account.clientId}',
  '${account.namespace}'
);

// Listening for the authenticated event
lock.on("authenticated", function(authResult) {
  // Use the token in authResult to getProfile() and save it to localStorage
  lock.getProfile(authResult.idToken, function(error, profile) {
    if (error) {
      // Handle error
      return;
    }

    localStorage.setItem('idToken', authResult.idToken);
    localStorage.setItem('profile', JSON.stringify(profile));
  });
});
```

### Showing Lock

```js
document.getElementById('btn-login').addEventListener('click', function() {
  lock.show();
});
```

### Displaying the User's Profile

```js
// Verify that there's a token in localStorage
var token = localStorage.getItem('idToken');
if (token) {
  showLoggedIn();
}

// Display the user's profile
function showLoggedIn() {
  var profile = JSON.parse(localStorage.getItem('profile'));
  document.getElementById('nick').textContent = profile.nickname;
}
```

```html
 <h2>Welcome <span id="nick" class="nickname"></span></h2>
```

**NOTE**: This example demonstrates using Lock 10 with a Single Page Application (SPA). To learn how Lock can be modified to provide frictionless authentication for any app, see the [API Reference][lock-api] and the [Configuration Options Reference][lock-customization]. For details specifically about customizing the look and feel of Lock in your app, please take a look at the [UI Customization][ui-customization] page.

## Start Using Lock

<%= include('../../_includes/_lock-sdk') %>

## Browser Compatibility

Browser compatibility is ensured for **Chrome**, **Safari**, **Firefox** and **IE >= 9**. Auth0 currently uses [zuul](https://github.com/defunctzombie/zuul) along with [Saucelabs](https://saucelabs.com) to run integration tests on each push.

<!--vars-->

[auth0-main]: https://auth0.com
[playground-url]: http://auth0.github.com/playground
[new-features]: /libraries/lock/v10/new-features
[example-browserify]: https://github.com/auth0/lock/tree/master/examples/bundling/browserify
[example-webpack]: https://github.com/auth0/lock/tree/master/examples/bundling/webpack
[display-modes]: /libraries/lock/v10/customization#container
[development-notes]: https://github.com/auth0/lock
[release-process]: https://github.com/auth0/lock
[sending-authentication-parameters]: /libraries/lock/v10/sending-authentication-parameters

[getting-started]: /libraries/lock#lock-10-installation
[lock-customization]: /libraries/lock/v10/customization
[ui-customization]: /libraries/lock/v10/ui-customization
[lock-api]: /libraries/lock/v10/api
[lock-auth0js]: /libraries/lock/v10/auth0js
[lock-issues]: /libraries/lock/v10/issues
[migration-guide]: /libraries/lock/v10/migration-guide
[i18n-notes]: /libraries/lock/v10/i18n
[popup-mode]: /libraries/lock/v10/popup-mode

Commit message:

Moving lock/auth0 libraries to new nav item

articles/libraries/lock/index.md, after:

---
section: libraries
toc: true
url: /libraries/lock
title: Lock for Web
description: A widget that provides a frictionless login and signup experience for your web apps.
---

# Lock for Web

You're looking at the documentation for the _easiest_ way of securing your website and mobile apps!

Lock is an embeddable login form, which is [configurable to your needs][lock-customization] and ready for use on mobile devices. It's easier than ever to add social identity providers to Lock, as well, allowing your users to login seamlessly using whichever providers make sense for your application. Check out one of the pages listed below to delve into details about Lock usage, if you know what you are looking for, or continue down this page for a basic installation and usage guide!

<%= include('_includes/_lock-version') %>

<%= include('_includes/_lock-toc') %>

## Lock 10 Installation

You can install Lock 10 via several methods. Select any of the following installation sources that best suit your environment and application.

### Installation Sources

Install via [npm](https://npmjs.org):

```sh
npm install auth0-lock
```

Install via [bower](http://bower.io):

```sh
bower install auth0-lock
```

Include via our CDN:

```html
<!-- Latest minor release -->
<script src="${lock_url}"></script>

<!-- Latest patch release (recommended for production) -->
<script src="http://cdn.auth0.com/js/lock/10.x.y/lock.min.js"></script>
```

**NOTE**: Replace `.x` and `.y` with the latest minor and patch release numbers from the [Lock Github repository](https://github.com/auth0/lock) for production environments.

### Mobile

If you are targeting mobile audiences, Auth0 recommendeds that you add the following meta tag to your application's `head`:

```html
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1, maximum-scale=1, user-scalable=0"/>
```

### Bundling Dependencies

If you are using browserify or webpack to build your project and bundle its dependencies, after installing the `auth0-lock` module, you will need to bundle it with all its dependencies. Examples are available for [Browserify][example-browserify] and [webpack][example-webpack].

## Usage

### Implementing Lock

```js
// Initiating our Auth0Lock
var lock = new Auth0Lock(
  '${account.clientId}',
  '${account.namespace}'
);

// Listening for the authenticated event
lock.on("authenticated", function(authResult) {
  // Use the token in authResult to getProfile() and save it to localStorage
  lock.getProfile(authResult.idToken, function(error, profile) {
    if (error) {
      // Handle error
      return;
    }

    localStorage.setItem('idToken', authResult.idToken);
    localStorage.setItem('profile', JSON.stringify(profile));
  });
});
```

### Showing Lock

```js
document.getElementById('btn-login').addEventListener('click', function() {
  lock.show();
});
```

### Displaying the User's Profile

```js
// Verify that there's a token in localStorage
var token = localStorage.getItem('idToken');
if (token) {
  showLoggedIn();
}

// Display the user's profile
function showLoggedIn() {
  var profile = JSON.parse(localStorage.getItem('profile'));
  document.getElementById('nick').textContent = profile.nickname;
}
```

```html
 <h2>Welcome <span id="nick" class="nickname"></span></h2>
```

**NOTE**: This example demonstrates using Lock 10 with a Single Page Application (SPA). To learn how Lock can be modified to provide frictionless authentication for any app, see the [API Reference][lock-api] and the [Configuration Options Reference][lock-customization]. For details specifically about customizing the look and feel of Lock in your app, please take a look at the [UI Customization][ui-customization] page.

## Start Using Lock

<%= include('../../_includes/_lock-sdk') %>

## Browser Compatibility

Browser compatibility is ensured for **Chrome**, **Safari**, **Firefox** and **IE >= 9**. Auth0 currently uses [zuul](https://github.com/defunctzombie/zuul) along with [Saucelabs](https://saucelabs.com) to run integration tests on each push.

<!--vars-->

[auth0-main]: https://auth0.com
[playground-url]: http://auth0.github.com/playground
[new-features]: /libraries/lock/v10/new-features
[example-browserify]: https://github.com/auth0/lock/tree/master/examples/bundling/browserify
[example-webpack]: https://github.com/auth0/lock/tree/master/examples/bundling/webpack
[display-modes]: /libraries/lock/v10/customization#container
[development-notes]: https://github.com/auth0/lock
[release-process]: https://github.com/auth0/lock
[sending-authentication-parameters]: /libraries/lock/v10/sending-authentication-parameters

[getting-started]: /libraries/lock#lock-10-installation
[lock-customization]: /libraries/lock/v10/customization
[ui-customization]: /libraries/lock/v10/ui-customization
[lock-api]: /libraries/lock/v10/api
[lock-auth0js]: /libraries/lock/v10/auth0js
[lock-issues]: /libraries/lock/v10/issues
[migration-guide]: /libraries/lock/v10/migration-guide
[i18n-notes]: /libraries/lock/v10/i18n
[popup-mode]: /libraries/lock/v10/popup-mode
