articles/appliance/geo-ha/disaster-recovery.md, before:

---
section: appliance
---

# Geographic High-Availability Appliance Failure Scenarios and Testing

[Overview of the Geographic High-Availability Appliance](/appliance/geo-ha)

## Geographic High-Availability Appliance Failure Scenarios and Impact

The following table details some of the ways in which the Geographic High-Availability Appliance may fail and what the implications of such a failure are.

<table class="table">
    <tr>
        <th>Event</th>
        <th>Outcome</th>
        <th>Performance Impact</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Service and Data are available for Primary Site Nodes 1, 2, 3</td>
        <td>The primary site continues to serve all traffic.</td>
        <td>None.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Data Unavailable for Node 1</td>
        <td>Node 2 or Node 3 becomes the primary data node.</td>
        <td>None.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Service Unavailable for Node 1</td>
        <td>Node 1 is pulled from the primary site load balancer and no longer serves requests.</td>
        <td>Overall handling capacity may be reduced by up to a third.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Service and Data Unavailable for Node 1</td>
        <td>Node 2 or Node 3 becomes the primary data node. Node 1 is pulled from the primary site load balancer and no longer serves requests.</td>
        <td>Overall handling capacity may be reduced by up to a third.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Data Unavailable for Nodes 1 and 2</td>
        <td>Node 3 becomes the primary data node.</td>
        <td>None.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Service Unavailable for Nodes 1 and 2</td>
        <td>All requests from the primary load balancer are routed to Node 3.</td>
        <td>Overall handling capacity is significantly reduced. Possibility of manual failover to a secondary site.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Service and Data Unavailable for Nodes 1 and 2</td>
        <td>All requests from the primary load balancer are routed to Node 3, which is also the primary data node.</td>
        <td>Overall handling capacity is significantly reduced. Possibility of manual failover to a secondary site.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Data Unavailable for Nodes 1, 2, and 3</td>
        <td>The Arbiter elects Node 4, 5, or 6 to become the primary data node.</td>
        <td>Some performance degradation due to cross-geography data requests while the load balancer continues to service requests from the primary site. Possibility of manual failover to secondary site.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Service Unavailable for Nodes 1, 2, and 3</td>
        <td>The Global Load Balancer will route traffic to the secondary application servers (Nodes 4-6). These servers will request data from the primary data server, which is still in the primary data center.</td>
        <td>Some performance degradation due to cross-geography data requests while the load balancer continues to service requests from the primary site. Possibility of manual failover to secondary site.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Data and Service Unavailable for Nodes 1, 2, and 3</td>
        <td>The Appliance instances associated with the secondary site are now serving requests.</td>
        <td>None.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Connection between the Global Load Balancer and the Primary Site Unavailable</td>
        <td>All requests are routed to the secondary site, but the secondary nodes continue to use data on the primary site</td>
        <td>Some performance degradation due to cross-geography data requests.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Arbiter is Unavailable</td>
        <td>If the primary and secondary sites are still available, there will be no impact to the end user.</td>
        <td>None.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>After failover, some (not all) of the nodes resume operation</td>
        <td>If some of the nodes are again available in the primary site, the Global Load Balancer will automatically switch to routing requests to the primary site. The Arbiter sees the higher priority data node and sets it as the primary (once it has been fully synced).</td>
        <td>Possible transient period of unavailability as the load balancer switches the routing of requests.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>All nodes are available again after a failover event</td>
        <td>If the nodes are again available in the primary site, the Global Load Balancer will automatically switch to routing requests to the primary site. The Arbiter sees the higher priority data node and sets it as the primary (once it has been fully synced).</td>
        <td>None.</td>
    </tr>
</table>

## Geographic High-Availability Appliance Testing

To test the Geographic High-Availability Appliance (GEO HA) failover/failback procedure, Auth0 will:

1. Take all nodes in the primary data center offline.
2. Run tests against the global load balancer to ensure that traffic gets rerouted to the secondary site.

GEO HA does not support having both the primary and secondary sites disconnected and active at the same time. Because the data layer is arranged in one stretched cluster, the cluster only permits one data node to act as primary.

The Arbiter, located in a third site, determines which site stays active in the case of severed connectivity between the two data centers, and during this period, it would continue to elect a node in the primary site to serve as the primary data node. As such, it is **not possible** to have two primary data nodes (one in the primary site and one in the secondary site) within a single cluster.

The application layer is always active on all nodes. For performance reasons, only the site containing the primary data node typically serves traffic. This is managed by the global load balancer.

## Backing Up the Geographic High-Availability Appliance

As a customer, it is your responsibility to perform regular backups on your Geographic High-Availability Appliance (GEO HA). Auth0 recommends a single backup, since the GEO HA is a single cluster stretched over a distance.

Typically, Auth0 recommends performing a daily backup. However, if you have concerns about a logical data corruption, or you need greater assurance of up-to-date data, you might choose to backup more frequently.

Because the backup process puts a substantial load on the backup node, please contact your Auth0 Customer Success Manager to schedule a discussion about performance impact if backups are performed more frequently/during peak usage times.

## Further Reading

* [How to Configure the Command Line Interface for Use with Appliance Instances](/appliance/cli/adding-node-to-backup-role)
* [Backing Up Appliance Instances with the Command Line Interface](/appliance/cli/backing-up-the-appliance)
* [Adding Appliance Nodes to the Backup Role](/appliance/cli/configure-cli)

Commit message:

Add descriptions to Appliance docs

articles/appliance/geo-ha/disaster-recovery.md, after:

---
section: appliance
description: Descriptions of Appliance Geo HA Failure Scenarios and Testing

---

# Geographic High-Availability Appliance Failure Scenarios and Testing

[Overview of the Geographic High-Availability Appliance](/appliance/geo-ha)

## Geographic High-Availability Appliance Failure Scenarios and Impact

The following table details some of the ways in which the Geographic High-Availability Appliance may fail and what the implications of such a failure are.

<table class="table">
    <tr>
        <th>Event</th>
        <th>Outcome</th>
        <th>Performance Impact</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Service and Data are available for Primary Site Nodes 1, 2, 3</td>
        <td>The primary site continues to serve all traffic.</td>
        <td>None.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Data Unavailable for Node 1</td>
        <td>Node 2 or Node 3 becomes the primary data node.</td>
        <td>None.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Service Unavailable for Node 1</td>
        <td>Node 1 is pulled from the primary site load balancer and no longer serves requests.</td>
        <td>Overall handling capacity may be reduced by up to a third.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Service and Data Unavailable for Node 1</td>
        <td>Node 2 or Node 3 becomes the primary data node. Node 1 is pulled from the primary site load balancer and no longer serves requests.</td>
        <td>Overall handling capacity may be reduced by up to a third.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Data Unavailable for Nodes 1 and 2</td>
        <td>Node 3 becomes the primary data node.</td>
        <td>None.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Service Unavailable for Nodes 1 and 2</td>
        <td>All requests from the primary load balancer are routed to Node 3.</td>
        <td>Overall handling capacity is significantly reduced. Possibility of manual failover to a secondary site.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Service and Data Unavailable for Nodes 1 and 2</td>
        <td>All requests from the primary load balancer are routed to Node 3, which is also the primary data node.</td>
        <td>Overall handling capacity is significantly reduced. Possibility of manual failover to a secondary site.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Data Unavailable for Nodes 1, 2, and 3</td>
        <td>The Arbiter elects Node 4, 5, or 6 to become the primary data node.</td>
        <td>Some performance degradation due to cross-geography data requests while the load balancer continues to service requests from the primary site. Possibility of manual failover to secondary site.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Service Unavailable for Nodes 1, 2, and 3</td>
        <td>The Global Load Balancer will route traffic to the secondary application servers (Nodes 4-6). These servers will request data from the primary data server, which is still in the primary data center.</td>
        <td>Some performance degradation due to cross-geography data requests while the load balancer continues to service requests from the primary site. Possibility of manual failover to secondary site.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Data and Service Unavailable for Nodes 1, 2, and 3</td>
        <td>The Appliance instances associated with the secondary site are now serving requests.</td>
        <td>None.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Connection between the Global Load Balancer and the Primary Site Unavailable</td>
        <td>All requests are routed to the secondary site, but the secondary nodes continue to use data on the primary site</td>
        <td>Some performance degradation due to cross-geography data requests.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Arbiter is Unavailable</td>
        <td>If the primary and secondary sites are still available, there will be no impact to the end user.</td>
        <td>None.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>After failover, some (not all) of the nodes resume operation</td>
        <td>If some of the nodes are again available in the primary site, the Global Load Balancer will automatically switch to routing requests to the primary site. The Arbiter sees the higher priority data node and sets it as the primary (once it has been fully synced).</td>
        <td>Possible transient period of unavailability as the load balancer switches the routing of requests.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>All nodes are available again after a failover event</td>
        <td>If the nodes are again available in the primary site, the Global Load Balancer will automatically switch to routing requests to the primary site. The Arbiter sees the higher priority data node and sets it as the primary (once it has been fully synced).</td>
        <td>None.</td>
    </tr>
</table>

## Geographic High-Availability Appliance Testing

To test the Geographic High-Availability Appliance (GEO HA) failover/failback procedure, Auth0 will:

1. Take all nodes in the primary data center offline.
2. Run tests against the global load balancer to ensure that traffic gets rerouted to the secondary site.

GEO HA does not support having both the primary and secondary sites disconnected and active at the same time. Because the data layer is arranged in one stretched cluster, the cluster only permits one data node to act as primary.

The Arbiter, located in a third site, determines which site stays active in the case of severed connectivity between the two data centers, and during this period, it would continue to elect a node in the primary site to serve as the primary data node. As such, it is **not possible** to have two primary data nodes (one in the primary site and one in the secondary site) within a single cluster.

The application layer is always active on all nodes. For performance reasons, only the site containing the primary data node typically serves traffic. This is managed by the global load balancer.

## Backing Up the Geographic High-Availability Appliance

As a customer, it is your responsibility to perform regular backups on your Geographic High-Availability Appliance (GEO HA). Auth0 recommends a single backup, since the GEO HA is a single cluster stretched over a distance.

Typically, Auth0 recommends performing a daily backup. However, if you have concerns about a logical data corruption, or you need greater assurance of up-to-date data, you might choose to backup more frequently.

Because the backup process puts a substantial load on the backup node, please contact your Auth0 Customer Success Manager to schedule a discussion about performance impact if backups are performed more frequently/during peak usage times.

## Further Reading

* [How to Configure the Command Line Interface for Use with Appliance Instances](/appliance/cli/adding-node-to-backup-role)
* [Backing Up Appliance Instances with the Command Line Interface](/appliance/cli/backing-up-the-appliance)
* [Adding Appliance Nodes to the Backup Role](/appliance/cli/configure-cli)
