articles/connector/scom-monitoring.md, before:

# Monitoring the AD/LDAP Connector with System Center Operations Manager

The Auth0 AD/LDAP connector can run as a Service on Windows based machines.

You can monitor the service status using System Center as you would do with any other service.

* Open the __Add Monitoring Wizard__ and select the __Monitoring Type: Windows Service__:

![ss-2014-12-11T22-48-51.png](/media/articles/connector/scom-monitoring/ss-2014-12-11T22-48-51.png)

* Enter a name and description:

![ss-2014-12-11T22-49-57.png](/media/articles/connector/scom-monitoring/ss-2014-12-11T22-49-57.png)

* Select the Server in which the AD/LDAP Connector is installed and then choose "Auth0 ADLDAP":

![ss-2014-12-11T22-50-37.png](/media/articles/connector/scom-monitoring/ss-2014-12-11T22-50-37.png)

* Select the limits of **CPU** and **Memory limits**. Eg: 10% of CPU and 200MB of RAM are good limits to trigger alerts.

We also recommend setting up a _synthetic transaction_ to monitor end to end authentication. More information about monitoring is available [here](/monitoring).

## AD/LDAP Connector Health Webtask
[Here](https://github.com/sandrinodimattia/auth0-ldap-connector-health-webtask) is a way to monitor health of AD/LDAP connector from Auth0 perspective.  This can be done in addition to monitoring from an infrastructure perspective.

Commit message:

Adding more descriptions
Adds descriptions to:
architecture-scenarios
cms
connector
dev-centers
error-pages

Ongoing work as part of:
https://trello.com/c/fseFQAic/130-add-descriptions-to-all-markdown-files

articles/connector/scom-monitoring.md, after:

---
description: How to monitor the AD/LDAP Connector with System Center Operations Manager.
---

# Monitoring the AD/LDAP Connector with System Center Operations Manager

The Auth0 AD/LDAP connector can run as a Service on Windows based machines.

You can monitor the service status using System Center as you would do with any other service.

* Open the __Add Monitoring Wizard__ and select the __Monitoring Type: Windows Service__:

![ss-2014-12-11T22-48-51.png](/media/articles/connector/scom-monitoring/ss-2014-12-11T22-48-51.png)

* Enter a name and description:

![ss-2014-12-11T22-49-57.png](/media/articles/connector/scom-monitoring/ss-2014-12-11T22-49-57.png)

* Select the Server in which the AD/LDAP Connector is installed and then choose "Auth0 ADLDAP":

![ss-2014-12-11T22-50-37.png](/media/articles/connector/scom-monitoring/ss-2014-12-11T22-50-37.png)

* Select the limits of **CPU** and **Memory limits**. Eg: 10% of CPU and 200MB of RAM are good limits to trigger alerts.

We also recommend setting up a _synthetic transaction_ to monitor end to end authentication. More information about monitoring is available [here](/monitoring).

## AD/LDAP Connector Health Webtask
[Here](https://github.com/sandrinodimattia/auth0-ldap-connector-health-webtask) is a way to monitor health of AD/LDAP connector from Auth0 perspective.  This can be done in addition to monitoring from an infrastructure perspective.
