articles/native-platforms/android/03-session-handling.md, before:

---
title: Session Handling
description: This tutorial will show you how to use Lock10 to mantain a session connected.
---


This tutorial will show you how to use Lock10 to mantain an active session with Auth0.

For this, you will need to handle user's ``credentials``. Let's take a look on this class, which is composed by three objects:

* ``idToken``: Identity Token that proves the identity of the user.
* ``accessToken``: Access Token used by Auth0 API.
* ``refreshToken``: Refresh Token that can be used to request new tokens without signing in again.

Those objects are the keys needed to keep the user connected, as they will be used in all the API-Calls`.

### Before Starting

Be sure that you have completed the [Login](01-login.md) Quickstart.

### 1. Save the User's Credentials

Your first step is to save, through a secure method, the user's credentials obtained in the login success response. We won't cover how to do that on this tutorial, feel free to save it as you like.

```java
private LockCallback callback = new AuthenticationCallback() {
            @Override
            public void onAuthentication(Credentials credentials) {
				// Login Success response
				saveCredentials(credentials)
            }
				...
        };
```

 
### 2. Request a new tokenID

#### i. Using a non-expired tokenID

In the case your current tokenID didn't expire, you can use it to get a new one, with a newer expire date.
```java
        String idToken = // GET STORED TOKEN ID
        AuthenticationAPIClient client = new AuthenticationAPIClient(new Auth0(${account.clientId}, ${account.namespace}));
        
        client.delegationWithIdToken(idToken).start(new BaseCallback<Delegation>() {
            @Override
            public void onSuccess(Delegation payload) {
            
            payload.getIdToken(); // New ID Token
            payload.getExpiresIn(); // New ID Token Expire Date
            
            }

            @Override
            public void onFailure(Auth0Exception error) {

            }
        });
```         

#### ii. Using refreshToken

If the ``tokenID`` already expired, you can always use the ``refreshToken`` to get a new one, without having to login again. For this reason, this token must be securely saved.

```java
        String refreshToken = // GET STORED REFRESH ID
        AuthenticationAPIClient(new Auth0(${account.clientId}, ${account.namespace}));
        
        authenticationClient.delegationWithRefreshToken(refreshToken).start(new BaseCallback<Delegation>() {
            @Override
            public void onSuccess(Delegation payload) {
                payload.getIdToken(); // New ID Token
                payload.getExpiresIn(); // New ID Token Expire Date
            }

            @Override
            public void onFailure(Auth0Exception error) {

            }
        });
```                

        
### 3. Logout

Whenever you want to Logout, you just need to erase the user's credentials, and navigate the user to the login screen.

An example would be:

```java
private void logout() {
        setUserCredentials(null); 
        startActivity(new Intent(this, LoginActivity.class));
    }
```

> Deleting the user credentials depends on how you store them.
> 

### Done!

This exercise was simple! Look forward to other tutorials of Lock10.

Commit message:

Re arrange requirements and add seed project

articles/native-platforms/android/03-session-handling.md, after:

---
title: Session Handling
description: This tutorial will show you how to use Lock10 to mantain a session connected.
---

::: panel-info System Requirements
This tutorial and seed project have been tested with the following:

* AndroidStudio 2.0
* Emulator - Nexus5X - Android 6.0 
:::

<%= include('../../_includes/_github', {
link: 'https://github.com/inaka/auth0-android-sample/tree/03-sessionhandling',
}) %>


This tutorial will show you how to use Lock10 to mantain an active session with Auth0.

For this, you will need to handle user's ``credentials``. Let's take a look on this class, which is composed by three objects:

* ``idToken``: Identity Token that proves the identity of the user.
* ``accessToken``: Access Token used by Auth0 API.
* ``refreshToken``: Refresh Token that can be used to request new tokens without signing in again.

Those objects are the keys needed to keep the user connected, as they will be used in all the API-Calls`.

### Before Starting

Be sure that you have completed the [Login](01-login.md) Quickstart.

### 1. Save the User's Credentials

Your first step is to save, through a secure method, the user's credentials obtained in the login success response. We won't cover how to do that on this tutorial, feel free to save it as you like.

```java
private LockCallback callback = new AuthenticationCallback() {
            @Override
            public void onAuthentication(Credentials credentials) {
				// Login Success response
				saveCredentials(credentials)
            }
				...
        };
```

 
### 2. Request a new tokenID

#### i. Using a non-expired tokenID

In the case your current tokenID didn't expire, you can use it to get a new one, with a newer expire date.
```java
        String idToken = // GET STORED TOKEN ID
        AuthenticationAPIClient client = new AuthenticationAPIClient(new Auth0(${account.clientId}, ${account.namespace}));
        
        client.delegationWithIdToken(idToken).start(new BaseCallback<Delegation>() {
            @Override
            public void onSuccess(Delegation payload) {
            
            payload.getIdToken(); // New ID Token
            payload.getExpiresIn(); // New ID Token Expire Date
            
            }

            @Override
            public void onFailure(Auth0Exception error) {

            }
        });
```         

#### ii. Using refreshToken

If the ``tokenID`` already expired, you can always use the ``refreshToken`` to get a new one, without having to login again. For this reason, this token must be securely saved.

```java
        String refreshToken = // GET STORED REFRESH ID
        AuthenticationAPIClient(new Auth0(${account.clientId}, ${account.namespace}));
        
        authenticationClient.delegationWithRefreshToken(refreshToken).start(new BaseCallback<Delegation>() {
            @Override
            public void onSuccess(Delegation payload) {
                payload.getIdToken(); // New ID Token
                payload.getExpiresIn(); // New ID Token Expire Date
            }

            @Override
            public void onFailure(Auth0Exception error) {

            }
        });
```                

        
### 3. Logout

Whenever you want to Logout, you just need to erase the user's credentials, and navigate the user to the login screen.

An example would be:

```java
private void logout() {
        setUserCredentials(null); 
        startActivity(new Intent(this, LoginActivity.class));
    }
```

> Deleting the user credentials depends on how you store them.
> 

### Done!

This exercise was simple! Look forward to other tutorials of Lock10.
