articles/client-platforms/angular2/06-rules.md, before:

---
title: Rules
description: This tutorial will show you how to use Auth0 rules to extend what Auth0 has to offer.
---

<%= include('../../_includes/_github', {
  link: 'https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-angularjs2-systemjs-sample/tree/master/06-Rules',
}) %>_

<%= include('../_includes/_rules-introduction') %>


### Test rule result

To see the created rule results, just login and fetch user profile information (you can see how [here](/quickstart/spa/angular2/03-user-profile)).

Then, display user profile's new `country` attribute added in the created rule attribute:

```html
/* ===== ./profile_show.template.html ===== */
<div *ngIf="auth.authenticated() && auth.userProfile">
  <div class="row">
    <div class="col-md-6">
      <h3>Profile</h3>
      ...
      <p><strong>Country (added by rule): </strong> {{auth.userProfile.country}}</p>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
<h4 *ngIf="!auth.authenticated()">You are not logged in, please click 'Log in' button to login</h4>
```

![Country rule sample](/media/articles/angularjs2/rule-country-show.png)

### Done!
You have implemented the usage of rule for your application.   
This is just one of the tons of cool things we can do with rules. Go ahead and create any rule that fits your needs.

Commit message:

angular2 improvements (#1754)
* angular2 improvements

* update rules done section

articles/client-platforms/angular2/06-rules.md, after:

---
title: Rules
description: This tutorial will show you how to use Auth0 rules to extend what Auth0 has to offer.
---

<%= include('../../_includes/_github', {
  link: 'https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-angularjs2-systemjs-sample/tree/master/06-Rules',
}) %>_

<%= include('../_includes/_rules-introduction') %>


### Test rule result

To see the created rule results, just login and fetch user profile information (you can see how [here](/quickstart/spa/angular2/03-user-profile)).

Then, display user profile's new `country` attribute added in the created rule attribute:

```html
/* ===== ./profile_show.template.html ===== */
<div *ngIf="auth.authenticated() && auth.userProfile">
  <div class="row">
    <div class="col-md-6">
      <h3>Profile</h3>
      ...
      <p><strong>Country (added by rule): </strong> {{auth.userProfile.country}}</p>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
<h4 *ngIf="!auth.authenticated()">You are not logged in, please click 'Log in' button to login</h4>
```

![Country rule sample](/media/articles/angularjs2/rule-country-show.png)

### Done!
That's it. You've just experienced how to implement a basic rule. This is just one of all the cool things you can do with them. Go ahead and create any that fits your needs.
