articles/server-platforms/java.md, before:

---
title: Auth0 Java Servlet Tutorial
description: This tutorial will show you how to use the Auth0 with a Java Servlet SDK to add authentication and authorization to your web app.
name: Java Servlet
image: /media/platforms/java.png
tags:
  - quickstart
alias:
  - java
seo_alias: java
snippets:
  dependencies: server-platforms/java-servlet/dependencies
  setup: server-platforms/java-servlet/setup
  use: server-platforms/java-servlet/use
---

## Java Servlet Web App Tutorial

::: panel-info System Requirements
This tutorial and seed project have been tested with the following:

* Java 1.7
* Maven 3.3
:::

You can download a [sample project](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-servlet-sample) to start.

If you already have an existing Java Servlet Web App, follow the steps below. You can find more information at the [Auth0 Servlet](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-servlet) on GitHub.

### 1. Add Auth0 dependencies

Add the following dependencies to your `pom.xml` file. Then run `mvn install`.

${snippet(meta.snippets.dependencies)}

**NOTE:** See the [seed project](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-servlet-sample) to understand the overall structure of your `pom.xml`.

### 2. Configure your app

To configure `auth0-servlet` to use your Auth0 credentials, edit the 
`src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/web.xml` file.

${snippet(meta.snippets.setup)}

**NOTE:**  See the [seed project](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-servlet-sample) that accompanies this library for the overall structure of [web.xml](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-servlet-sample/blob/master/src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/web.xml).

Here is a list of customizable attributes of web.xml:

- `auth0.domain`: This is your Auth0 domain namespace (the tenant you created when registering with Auth0 - i.e.`your_account_name.auth0.com`).
- `auth0.clientId`: This is the `client_id` of your Auth0 application (see [Settings](${uiURL}/#/applications) page of your app on the Auth0 dashboard).
- `auth0.clientSecret`: This is the `client_secret` of your Auth0 application (see [Settings](${uiURL}/#/applications) page of your app on the Auth0 dashboard).
- `auth0.onLogoutRedirectTo`: This is the page that users of your site will be redirected to on logout. Should begin with `/`.

### 3. Add the Auth0 callback handler

You can use the `Auth0CallbackHandler` provided by the SDK to authenticate the user. This should work as-is based on the configuration you setup in `web.xml`. 

For more fine-grained control, you can inherit the library version of `Auth0CallbackHandler` to override methods for tailored behavior. See the [Auth0 Servlet ReadMe](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-servlet) on GitHub for details.

### 4. Integrate Lock

Here is a recommended login setup using Lock:

```html
${'<%@ taglib prefix="fn" uri="http://java.sun.com/jsp/jstl/functions" %>'}
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <title>Login</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/css/bootstrap.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/css/jquery.growl.css"/>
  <script src="http://code.jquery.com/jquery.js"></script>
  <script src="http://cdn.auth0.com/js/lock-9.min.js"></script>
  <script src="/js/jquery.growl.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
</head>
<body>
  <div class="container">
    <script type="text/javascript">
      $(function () {
        var error = $(error);
        if (error) {
          $.growl.error({message: "An error was detected. Please log in"});
        } else {
          $.growl({title: "Welcome!", message: "Please log in"});
        }
      });
      
      $(function () {
        var lock = new Auth0Lock('${account.clientId}', '${account.namespace}');
        lock.showSignin({
          authParams: {
            state: $(state),
            // change scopes to whatever you like
            // claims are added to JWT id_token - openid profile gives everything
            scope: 'openid user_id name nickname email picture'
          },
          responseType: 'code',
          popup: false,
          callbackURL: '${account.callback}'
        });
      });
    </script>
  </div>
</body>
</html>
```

By default, this library expects a `nonce` value in the `state` query parameter as follows: `state=nonce=B4AD596E418F7CE02A703B42F60BAD8F` where the value is a randomly generated UUID. NonceFactory can be used to generate the `nonce` value. 

The `state` may need to hold other attribute values. For instance, in SSO you may need an `externalCallbackUrl` that also needs to be stored in the state parameter: `state=nonce=B4AD596E418F7CE02A703B42F60BAD8F&externalCallbackUrl=http://localhost:3099/callback`.

### 5. Access user information

Depending on which `scopes` you specified on login, some user information may be available in the [id_token](/tokens#auth0-id_token-jwt-) received. The full user profile information is available as a session object keyed on `Auth0User` that you can call `SessionUtils.getAuth0User()` to retrieve. 

However, because the authenticated user is also a `java.security.Principal` object, you can automatically inject it into the Controller for secured endpoints.

Commit message:

Java docs updates (#1573)
* Add servlet gradle dependencies

* Update maven dependencies and attributes

* Update java-spring-mvc dependencies

* Update api dependencies and attributes

* Update dependencies and auth0 attributes

* Add section for new sample app

* Add section on endpoint security configuration

* Add note on sample app

articles/server-platforms/java.md, after:

---
title: Auth0 Java Servlet Tutorial
description: This tutorial will show you how to use the Auth0 with a Java Servlet SDK to add authentication and authorization to your web app.
name: Java Servlet
image: /media/platforms/java.png
tags:
  - quickstart
alias:
  - java
seo_alias: java
snippets:
  dependencies: server-platforms/java-servlet/dependencies
  dependenciesGradle: server-platforms/java-servlet/dependencies-gradle
  setup: server-platforms/java-servlet/setup
  use: server-platforms/java-servlet/use
---

## Java Servlet Web App Tutorial

::: panel-info System Requirements
This tutorial and seed project have been tested with the following:

* Java 1.7
* Maven 3.3
:::

You can download a [sample project](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-servlet-sample) to start.

If you already have an existing Java Servlet Web App, follow the steps below. You can find more information at the [Auth0 Servlet](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-servlet) on GitHub.

### 1. Add Auth0 dependencies

You need to add the `auth0-servlet` dependency.

If you are using maven, add the dependency to your `pom.xml`:

${snippet(meta.snippets.dependencies)}

If you are using Gradle, add it to the dependencies block:

${snippet(meta.snippets.dependenciesGradle)}

**NOTE:** See the [seed project](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-servlet-sample) to understand the overall structure of your `pom.xml`.

### 2. Configure your app

To configure `auth0-servlet` to use your Auth0 credentials, edit the 
`src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/web.xml` file.

${snippet(meta.snippets.setup)}

**NOTE:**  See the [seed project](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-servlet-sample) that accompanies this library for the overall structure of [web.xml](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-servlet-sample/blob/master/src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/web.xml).

Here is a list of customizable attributes of web.xml:

- `auth0.domain`: Your auth0 domain (the tenant you have created when registering with auth0).
- `auth0.clientId`: The unique identifier for your application. You can find the correct value on the Settings of your app on [Auth0 dashboard](${uiURL}/#/).
- `auth0.clientSecret`: This secret will be used to sign and validate tokens which will be used in the different authentication flows. With this key your application will also be able to authenticate to some of the API endpoints (eg: to get an access token from an authorization code). You can find the correct value on the Settings of your app on [Auth0 dashboard](${uiURL}/#/).
- `auth0.onLogoutRedirectTo`: The page that users of your site will be redirected to on logout. Should begin with `/`.
- `auth0.redirect_on_success`: The landing page URL context path for a successful authentication. Should start with `/`.
- `auth0.redirect_on_error`: The URL context path for the page to redirect to upon failure. Should start with `/`.
- `auth0.redirect_on_authentication_error`: The URL context path for the page to redirect to upon authentication failure. Should start with `/`.

### 3. Add the Auth0 callback handler

You can use the `Auth0CallbackHandler` provided by the SDK to authenticate the user. This should work as-is based on the configuration you setup in `web.xml`. 

For more fine-grained control, you can inherit the library version of `Auth0CallbackHandler` to override methods for tailored behavior. See the [Auth0 Servlet ReadMe](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-servlet) on GitHub for details.

### 4. Integrate Lock

Here is a recommended login setup using Lock:

```html
${'<%@ taglib prefix="fn" uri="http://java.sun.com/jsp/jstl/functions" %>'}
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <title>Login</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/css/bootstrap.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/css/jquery.growl.css"/>
  <script src="http://code.jquery.com/jquery.js"></script>
  <script src="http://cdn.auth0.com/js/lock-9.min.js"></script>
  <script src="/js/jquery.growl.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
</head>
<body>
  <div class="container">
    <script type="text/javascript">
      $(function () {
        var error = $(error);
        if (error) {
          $.growl.error({message: "An error was detected. Please log in"});
        } else {
          $.growl({title: "Welcome!", message: "Please log in"});
        }
      });
      
      $(function () {
        var lock = new Auth0Lock('${account.clientId}', '${account.namespace}');
        lock.showSignin({
          authParams: {
            state: $(state),
            // change scopes to whatever you like
            // claims are added to JWT id_token - openid profile gives everything
            scope: 'openid user_id name nickname email picture'
          },
          responseType: 'code',
          popup: false,
          callbackURL: '${account.callback}'
        });
      });
    </script>
  </div>
</body>
</html>
```

By default, this library expects a `nonce` value in the `state` query parameter as follows: `state=nonce=B4AD596E418F7CE02A703B42F60BAD8F` where the value is a randomly generated UUID. NonceFactory can be used to generate the `nonce` value. 

The `state` may need to hold other attribute values. For instance, in SSO you may need an `externalCallbackUrl` that also needs to be stored in the state parameter: `state=nonce=B4AD596E418F7CE02A703B42F60BAD8F&externalCallbackUrl=http://localhost:3099/callback`.

### 5. Access user information

Depending on which `scopes` you specified on login, some user information may be available in the [id_token](/tokens#auth0-id_token-jwt-) received. The full user profile information is available as a session object keyed on `Auth0User` that you can call `SessionUtils.getAuth0User()` to retrieve. 

However, because the authenticated user is also a `java.security.Principal` object, you can automatically inject it into the Controller for secured endpoints.
