articles/server-platforms/java-spring-mvc.md, before:

---
title: Auth0 Java Spring MVC Tutorial
description: This tutorial will show you how to use the Auth0 Java Spring MVC SDK to add authentication and authorization to your web app.
name: Java Spring MVC
image: /media/platforms/spring.png
tags:
  - quickstart
alias:
  - spring
  - spring-security
seo_alias: java spring mvc
snippets:
  dependencies: server-platforms/java-spring-mvc/dependencies
  setup: server-platforms/java-spring-mvc/setup
  use: server-platforms/java-spring-mvc/use
---

## Java Spring MVC Web App Tutorial

You can get started by either downloading the seed project or if you would like to add Auth0 to an existing application you can follow the tutorial steps.

::: panel-info System Requirements
This tutorial and seed project have been tested with the following:

* Java 1.7
* Maven 3.3
:::

You can download a seed project [here](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-spring-mvc-sample).

If you have an existing Java Spring Web App, please follow the steps below. You can find some useful information on our [GitHub library](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-spring-mvc).

### 1. Add Auth0 dependencies

Add the following dependencies to your `pom.xml` and run `mvn install`.

${snippet(meta.snippets.dependencies)}

See the [seed project](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-spring-mvc-sample) to understand the proposed overall structure of your `pom.xml`.

### 2. Configure your app

We need to configure `auth0-spring-mvc` to use our Auth0 credentials. For that, just create a file called `auth0.properties` and place it under `src/main/resources`. Set the following settings:

${snippet(meta.snippets.setup)}

Here is a breakdown of what each attribute means:

- `auth0.domain` - This is your auth0 domain (tenant you have created when registering with auth0 - account name).
- `auth0.clientId` - This is the client id of your auth0 application (see Settings page on auth0 dashboard).
- `auth0.clientSecret` - This is the client secret of your auth0 application (see Settings page on auth0 dashboard).
- `auth0.onLogoutRedirectTo` - This is the page / view that users of your site are redirected to on logout. Should start with `/`.
- `auth0.securedRoute`: - This is the URL pattern to secure a URL endpoint. Should start with `/`. You should replace the value with the correct value for your implementation.
- `auth0.loginCallback` -  This is the URL context path for the login callback endpoint. Should start with `/`.
- `auth0.loginRedirectOnSuccess` - This is the landing page URL context path for a successful authentication. Should start with `/`.
- `auth0.loginRedirectOnFail` - This is the URL context path for the page to redirect to upon failure. Should start with `/`.
- `auth0.servletFilterEnabled` - This is a boolean value that switches having an authentication filter enabled On / Off.


### 3. Add Auth0 callback handler

We need to add the handler for the Auth0 callback so that we can authenticate the user and get his information. For that, we'll use the `Auth0CallbackHandler` provided by the SDK.

Simply define a new Controller, configure it to use the `auth0.loginCallback` endpoint, and inherit from `Auth0CallbackHandler`.

Example usage: extend this class and define Controller in subclass.

${snippet(meta.snippets.use)}

### 4. Triggering login manually or integrating the Auth0Lock

Here is a recommended login setup using Lock:

```html
${'<%@ taglib prefix="fn" uri="http://java.sun.com/jsp/jstl/functions" %>'}
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <title>Login</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/css/bootstrap.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/css/jquery.growl.css"/>
  <script src="http://code.jquery.com/jquery.js"></script>
  <script src="http://cdn.auth0.com/js/lock-9.min.js"></script>
  <script src="/js/jquery.growl.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
</head>
<body>
  <div class="container">
    <script type="text/javascript">
      $(function () {
        var error = {error};
        if (error) {
          $.growl.error({message: "An error was detected. Please log in"});
        } else {
          $.growl({title: "Welcome!", message: "Please log in"});
        }
      });

      $(function () {
        var lock = new Auth0Lock('${account.clientId}', '${account.namespace}');
        lock.showSignin({
          authParams: {
            state: {state},
            // change scopes to whatever you like
            // claims are added to JWT id_token - openid profile gives everything
            scope: 'openid user_id name nickname email picture'
          },
          responseType: 'code',
          popup: false,
          callbackURL: '${account.callback}'
        });
      });
    </script>
  </div>
</body>
</html>
```

By default, this library expects a Nonce value in the state query param as follows `state=nonce=B4AD596E418F7CE02A703B42F60BAD8F`, where `xyz` is a randomly generated UUID.

The NonceFactory can be used to generate such a nonce value. State may be needed to hold other attribute values hence why it has its own keyed value of `nonce=B4AD596E418F7CE02A703B42F60BAD8F`. For instance in SSO you may need an `externalCallbackUrl` which also needs to be stored down in the state param: `state=nonce=B4AD596E418F7CE02A703B42F60BAD8F&externalCallbackUrl=http://localhost:3099/callback`.


### 5. Accessing user information

Depending on what `scopes` you specified upon login, some user information may be available in the [id_token](/tokens#auth0-id_token-jwt-) received.
The full user profile information is available as a session object keyed on `Auth0User`, you can simply call `SessionUtils.getAuth0User()`. However, because the authenticated user is also a `java.security.Principal` object we can inject it into the Controller automatically for secured endpoints.

```java
@RequestMapping(value="/portal/home", method = RequestMethod.GET)
protected String home(final Map<String, Object> model, final Principal principal) {
  logger.info("Home page");
  final Auth0User user = (Auth0User) principal;
  logger.info("Principal name: "  user.getName());
  model.put("user", user);
  return "home";
}
```

The value `/portal/home` should be replaced with the valid one for your implementation.

### 6. You're done!

You have configured your Java Webapp to use Auth0. Congrats, you're awesome!

Commit message:

Java docs updates (#1573)
* Add servlet gradle dependencies

* Update maven dependencies and attributes

* Update java-spring-mvc dependencies

* Update api dependencies and attributes

* Update dependencies and auth0 attributes

* Add section for new sample app

* Add section on endpoint security configuration

* Add note on sample app

articles/server-platforms/java-spring-mvc.md, after:

---
title: Auth0 Java Spring MVC Tutorial
description: This tutorial will show you how to use the Auth0 Java Spring MVC SDK to add authentication and authorization to your web app.
name: Java Spring MVC
image: /media/platforms/spring.png
tags:
  - quickstart
alias:
  - spring
  - spring-security
seo_alias: java spring mvc
snippets:
  dependencies: server-platforms/java-spring-mvc/dependencies
  dependenciesGradle: server-platforms/java-spring-mvc/dependencies-gradle
  setup: server-platforms/java-spring-mvc/setup
  use: server-platforms/java-spring-mvc/use
---

## Java Spring MVC Web App Tutorial

You can get started by either downloading the seed project or if you would like to add Auth0 to an existing application you can follow the tutorial steps.

::: panel-info System Requirements
This tutorial and seed project have been tested with the following:

* Java 1.7
* Maven 3.3
:::

You can download a seed project [here](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-spring-mvc-sample).

If you have an existing Java Spring Web App, please follow the steps below. You can find some useful information on our [GitHub library](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-spring-mvc).

### 1. Add Auth0 dependencies

You need to add the `auth0-spring-mvc` dependency.

If you are using maven, add the dependency to your `pom.xml`:

${snippet(meta.snippets.dependencies)}

If you are using Gradle, add it to the dependencies block:

${snippet(meta.snippets.dependenciesGradle)}

See the [seed project](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-spring-mvc-sample) to understand the proposed overall structure of your `pom.xml`.

### 2. Configure your app

We need to configure `auth0-spring-mvc` to use our Auth0 credentials. For that, just create a file called `auth0.properties` and place it under `src/main/resources`. Set the following settings:

${snippet(meta.snippets.setup)}

Here is a breakdown of what each attribute means:

- `auth0.domain`: Your auth0 domain (the tenant you have created when registering with auth0).
- `auth0.clientId`: The unique identifier for your application. You can find the correct value on the Settings of your app on [Auth0 dashboard](${uiURL}/#/).
- `auth0.clientSecret`: This secret will be used to sign and validate tokens which will be used in the different authentication flows. With this key your application will also be able to authenticate to some of the API endpoints (eg: to get an access token from an authorization code). You can find the correct value on the Settings of your app on [Auth0 dashboard](${uiURL}/#/).
- `auth0.onLogoutRedirectTo`: This is the page that users of your site are redirected to on logout. Should start with `/`.
- `auth0.securedRoute`: The URL pattern that should map to the URL endpoint you wish to secure. You should replace its value with the correct value for your implementation. It should start with `/`.
- `auth0.loginCallback`: The URL context path for the login callback endpoint. Should start with `/`.
- `auth0.loginRedirectOnSuccess`: The landing page URL context path for a successful authentication. Should start with `/`.
- `auth0.loginRedirectOnFail`: The URL context path for the page to redirect to upon failure. Should start with `/`.
- `auth0.servletFilterEnabled`: A boolean value that switches having an authentication filter enabled or not.


### 3. Add Auth0 callback handler

We need to add the handler for the Auth0 callback so that we can authenticate the user and get his information. For that, we'll use the `Auth0CallbackHandler` provided by the SDK.

Simply define a new Controller, configure it to use the `auth0.loginCallback` endpoint, and inherit from `Auth0CallbackHandler`.

Example usage: extend this class and define Controller in subclass.

${snippet(meta.snippets.use)}

### 4. Triggering login manually or integrating the Auth0Lock

Here is a recommended login setup using Lock:

```html
${'<%@ taglib prefix="fn" uri="http://java.sun.com/jsp/jstl/functions" %>'}
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <title>Login</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/css/bootstrap.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/css/jquery.growl.css"/>
  <script src="http://code.jquery.com/jquery.js"></script>
  <script src="http://cdn.auth0.com/js/lock-9.min.js"></script>
  <script src="/js/jquery.growl.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
</head>
<body>
  <div class="container">
    <script type="text/javascript">
      $(function () {
        var error = {error};
        if (error) {
          $.growl.error({message: "An error was detected. Please log in"});
        } else {
          $.growl({title: "Welcome!", message: "Please log in"});
        }
      });

      $(function () {
        var lock = new Auth0Lock('${account.clientId}', '${account.namespace}');
        lock.showSignin({
          authParams: {
            state: {state},
            // change scopes to whatever you like
            // claims are added to JWT id_token - openid profile gives everything
            scope: 'openid user_id name nickname email picture'
          },
          responseType: 'code',
          popup: false,
          callbackURL: '${account.callback}'
        });
      });
    </script>
  </div>
</body>
</html>
```

By default, this library expects a Nonce value in the state query param as follows `state=nonce=B4AD596E418F7CE02A703B42F60BAD8F`, where `xyz` is a randomly generated UUID.

The NonceFactory can be used to generate such a nonce value. State may be needed to hold other attribute values hence why it has its own keyed value of `nonce=B4AD596E418F7CE02A703B42F60BAD8F`. For instance in SSO you may need an `externalCallbackUrl` which also needs to be stored down in the state param: `state=nonce=B4AD596E418F7CE02A703B42F60BAD8F&externalCallbackUrl=http://localhost:3099/callback`.


### 5. Accessing user information

Depending on what `scopes` you specified upon login, some user information may be available in the [id_token](/tokens#auth0-id_token-jwt-) received.
The full user profile information is available as a session object keyed on `Auth0User`, you can simply call `SessionUtils.getAuth0User()`. However, because the authenticated user is also a `java.security.Principal` object we can inject it into the Controller automatically for secured endpoints.

```java
@RequestMapping(value="/portal/home", method = RequestMethod.GET)
protected String home(final Map<String, Object> model, final Principal principal) {
  logger.info("Home page");
  final Auth0User user = (Auth0User) principal;
  logger.info("Principal name: "  user.getName());
  model.put("user", user);
  return "home";
}
```

The value `/portal/home` should be replaced with the valid one for your implementation.

### 6. You're done!

You have configured your Java Webapp to use Auth0. Congrats, you're awesome!
