articles/appliance/webtasks.md, before:

---
url: /appliance/webtasks
section: appliance
---

# Auth0 Appliance: Webtasks

Beginning with Build 7247, you may use the Appliance's version of  [Webtasks](http://webtask.io/) to execute your rules and custom database logic.

## Sandboxes

Auth0 provides different stages (which are known as sandboxes) on which you may run your rules and custom database logic:

* `node_sandbox` (default): while more secure than `eval`, `node_sandbox` is more resource intensive;
* `eval`: provides the best performance, but is the least secure of the three available modes;
* `auth0-sandbox`: provides better performance that `node_sandbox`, improved isolation over `eval`, and offers a greater number of Node.js modules for use with your custom code.

**Note**: Only one sandbox mode may be selected at any given time (for example, you may not run selected rules in one sandbox and other rules in another sandbox). If you would like to change the sandbox mode, please discuss this with your Auth0 Customer Success Engineer.

## Code Compatibility

Code that you have written for use with `node-sandbox` or `eval` will work in `auth0-sandbox`. However, code that is written for `auth0-sandbox` may not be compatible with `node-sandbox` or `eval`, especially if your code uses modules.

The `auth0-sandbox` is the recommended method for running your custom code.

## Working with Webtasks

You may use Webtasks by calling its endpoints directly. This can be done using the Webtask Command Line Interface (`wt-cli`) and specifying the ``--url "https://webtask.<a0url>.com"`` parameter (where `a0url` is the address of the Appliance node). For additional information on setting up the `wt-cli`, please see [Getting Started with Webtasks](https://webtask.io/docs/101).

## Further Reading

* [Getting Started with Webtasks](https://webtask.io/docs/101)
* [Using Webtasks as Code Sandboxes](https://webtask.io/docs/sample_multitenant)
* [HTTP API: Executing Webtasks](https://webtask.io/docs/api_run)

Commit message:

Add descriptions to Appliance docs

articles/appliance/webtasks.md, after:

---
url: /appliance/webtasks
section: appliance
description: How to use Webtasks on the Appliance
---

# Auth0 Appliance: Webtasks

Beginning with Build 7247, you may use the Appliance's version of  [Webtasks](http://webtask.io/) to execute your rules and custom database logic.

## Sandboxes

Auth0 provides different stages (which are known as sandboxes) on which you may run your rules and custom database logic:

* `node_sandbox` (default): while more secure than `eval`, `node_sandbox` is more resource intensive;
* `eval`: provides the best performance, but is the least secure of the three available modes;
* `auth0-sandbox`: provides better performance that `node_sandbox`, improved isolation over `eval`, and offers a greater number of Node.js modules for use with your custom code.

**Note**: Only one sandbox mode may be selected at any given time (for example, you may not run selected rules in one sandbox and other rules in another sandbox). If you would like to change the sandbox mode, please discuss this with your Auth0 Customer Success Engineer.

## Code Compatibility

Code that you have written for use with `node-sandbox` or `eval` will work in `auth0-sandbox`. However, code that is written for `auth0-sandbox` may not be compatible with `node-sandbox` or `eval`, especially if your code uses modules.

The `auth0-sandbox` is the recommended method for running your custom code.

## Working with Webtasks

You may use Webtasks by calling its endpoints directly. This can be done using the Webtask Command Line Interface (`wt-cli`) and specifying the ``--url "https://webtask.<a0url>.com"`` parameter (where `a0url` is the address of the Appliance node). For additional information on setting up the `wt-cli`, please see [Getting Started with Webtasks](https://webtask.io/docs/101).

## Further Reading

* [Getting Started with Webtasks](https://webtask.io/docs/101)
* [Using Webtasks as Code Sandboxes](https://webtask.io/docs/sample_multitenant)
* [HTTP API: Executing Webtasks](https://webtask.io/docs/api_run)
