articles/native-platforms/ios-objc/01-login.md, before:

---
title: iOS Objective-C
default: true
description: This tutorial demonstrates how to use the Auth0 iOS Objective-C SDK to add authentication and authorization to your mobile app
budicon: 448
---

<%= include('../../_includes/_package', {
  org: 'auth0-samples',
  repo: 'auth0-ios-objc-sample',
  path: '01-Login',
  requirements: [
    'CocoaPods 0.39.0',
    'XCode 7.2.1',
    'Simulator - iOS 9.2 - iPhone 6'
  ]
}) %>

## Initial Setup

Go to the [Application Settings](${manage_url}/#/applications/${account.clientId}/settings) section of your app in the Auth0 dashboard and make sure that **Allowed Callback URLs** contains the following value:

`a0${account.clientId}://\*.auth0.com/authorize`

## Add the Auth0 Dependencies

Add the following to the `Podfile` and run `pod install`:

${snippet(meta.snippets.dependencies)}

**NOTE:** If you need help installing CocoaPods, see: [What is CocoaPods](http://guides.cocoapods.org/using/getting-started.html).

## Configure Auth0 Lock for iOS

1. Add the following entries to your app's `Info.plist`:

| Key | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Auth0ClientId | `${account.clientId}` |
| Auth0Domain | `${account.namespace}` |


2. Register a new _URL Type_ in  your app's **Targets** info section with the following scheme:
`a0${account.clientId}`

    ![Lock.png](/media/articles/native-platforms/ios-objc/url-type-register.png)

3. Create and configure an instance of `A0Lock` with your Auth0 credentials from `Info.plist`. This sample uses a custom object called `MyApplication`:

${snippet(meta.snippets.setup)}

**NOTE:** You can create `A0Lock` in any other class, even in your `AppDelegate`, the only requirement is that you keep it in a **strong** reference.

## Register Native Authentication Handlers

1. In your `AppDelegate` method `application:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:`, add the following lines:

```objc
A0Lock *lock = [[MyApplication sharedInstance] lock];
[lock applicationLaunchedWithOptions:launchOptions];
```

2. Add the following import:

```objc
#import <Lock/Lock.h>
#import “MyApplication.h"
```

3. To allow native logins using other iOS apps (e.g: Twitter, Facebook, Safari etc.), add the following method:

```objc
- (BOOL)application:(UIApplication *)application openURL:(NSURL *)url sourceApplication:(NSString *)sourceApplication annotation:(id)annotation {
    A0Lock *lock = [[MyApplication sharedInstance] lock];
    return [lock handleURL:url sourceApplication:sourceApplication];
}
```

**NOTE:** If you need Facebook or Twitter native authentication, continue reading to learn how to configure these. Otherwise, skip to [Implement the login](#implement-the-login).

::: panel-info Configuration
Before continuing to configure either Facebook or Twitter integration, check that you have enabled and correctly configured the social connection with your credentials in the [Dashboard](${manage_url}/#/connections/social).
:::


### Facebook

Lock uses the native Facebook SDK to obtain the user's access token. Use the information from your app that is configured for Facebook connections in the Auth0 dashboard:

1. Add the following entries to the `Info.plist`:

  | Key | Value |
| --- | --- |
| FacebookAppID | `YOUR_FACEBOOK_APP_ID` |
| FacebookDisplayName | `YOUR_FACEBOOK_DISPLAY_NAME` |


2. Register a custom URL Type with the format `fb<FacebookAppID>`.

**NOTE:** For more information on how to configure your app for Facebook, see: [Facebook Getting Started Guide](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/ios/getting-started) and [Connect your app to Facebook](/connections/social/facebook).

Here is an example of how the entries should look:

![FB plist](/media/articles/native-platforms/ios-objc/fb-plist.png)

3. Add the following key to the `Info.plist` inside the main `<dict>` key. To open this file in Source Code mode within Xcode, **Control-Click** (or right click) on it, and select **Open As > Source Code**.

```xml
<key>LSApplicationQueriesSchemes</key>
<array>
        <string>fbapi</string>
        <string>fb-messenger-api</string>
        <string>fbauth2</string>
        <string>fbshareextension</string>
</array>
```
**NOTE:** These entries enable compatibility with iOS 9. You can get more information about this on Facebook's developer portal at: [Preparing your apps for iOS 9](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/ios/ios9).

4. Add Lock Facebook's Pod:

`pod 'Lock-Facebook', '~> 2.0'`

5. Add to the import:

`#import <Lock-Facebook/A0FacebookAuthenticator.h>`

6. Register it after initializing `A0Lock`:

```objc
A0FacebookAuthenticator *facebook = [A0FacebookAuthenticator newAuthenticatorWithDefaultPermissions];
[lock registerAuthenticators:@[facebook]];
```

### Twitter

1. Add Lock Twitter's Pod

`pod 'Lock-Twitter', '~> 1.1'`

2. Add to the import:

`#import <Lock-Twitter/A0TwitterAuthenticator.h>`

3. Configure Auth0 Twitter authenticator after you initialize `A0Lock`:

```objc
NSString *twitterApiKey = ... //Remember to obfuscate your api key
NSString *twitterApiSecret = ... //Remember to obfuscate your api secret
A0TwitterAuthenticator *twitter = [A0TwitterAuthenticator newAuthenticatorWithKey:twitterApiKey andSecret:twitterApiSecret];
[lock registerAuthenticators:@[twitter]];
```

**NOTE:** For more information on configuring your app for Twitter, see: [Connect your app to Twitter](/connections/social/twitter).

## Implement the login

Now you are ready to implement the Login using Lock. You only need to instantiate and present it from any of your `UIViewControllers`, like this:

${snippet(meta.snippets.use)}

![Lock.png](/media/articles/native-platforms/ios-objc/Lock-Widget-Screenshot.png)

::: panel-info Login UI Options
There are multiple ways of implementing the login box. What you see above is the Login Widget. You can also [Build your own UI](/libraries/lock-ios/use-your-own-ui), or implement one of the passwordless Login Widgets: [SMS](/libraries/lock-ios#sms) or [TouchID](/libraries/lock-ios#touchid).
:::

On successful authentication, `onAuthenticationBlock` will yield the user's profile and tokens.

**NOTE:** To learn how to save and manage the tokens and profile, see: [Lock iOS: Saving and Refreshing JWT Tokens](/libraries/lock-ios/save-and-refresh-jwt-tokens).

## 5. Showing user information

After the user has logged in, you can use the `profile` object which contains all the user information:

```objc
  self.usernameLabel.text = profile.name;
  self.emailLabel.text = profile.email;
```

## Additional Information

See [User Profile](/user-profile) to find out all of the available properties of the user profile.

Also see: [A0UserProfile](https://github.com/auth0/Lock.iOS-OSX/blob/master/Lock/Core/A0UserProfile.h).

You can also download a [sample project](/package/native-mobile-samples/master?path=iOS/profile-sample-swift&file_path=iOS/profile-sample-swift/ProfileSample/Info.plist&type=replace&client_id=${account.clientId}) that shows how to store/update your user profile with Auth0.

Commit message:

Added use safari for web auth guide for iOS

articles/native-platforms/ios-objc/01-login.md, after:

---
title: iOS Objective-C
default: true
description: This tutorial demonstrates how to use the Auth0 iOS Objective-C SDK to add authentication and authorization to your mobile app
budicon: 448
---

<%= include('../../_includes/_package', {
  org: 'auth0-samples',
  repo: 'auth0-ios-objc-sample',
  path: '01-Login',
  requirements: [
    'CocoaPods 0.39.0',
    'XCode 7.2.1',
    'Simulator - iOS 9.2 - iPhone 6'
  ]
}) %>

## Initial Setup

Go to the [Application Settings](${manage_url}/#/applications/${account.clientId}/settings) section of your app in the Auth0 dashboard and make sure that **Allowed Callback URLs** contains the following value:

`a0${account.clientId}://\*.auth0.com/authorize`

## Add the Auth0 Dependencies

Add the following to the `Podfile` and run `pod install`:

${snippet(meta.snippets.dependencies)}

**NOTE:** If you need help installing CocoaPods, see: [What is CocoaPods](http://guides.cocoapods.org/using/getting-started.html).

## Configure Auth0 Lock for iOS

1. Add the following entries to your app's `Info.plist`:

| Key | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Auth0ClientId | `${account.clientId}` |
| Auth0Domain | `${account.namespace}` |


2. Register a new _URL Type_ in  your app's **Targets** info section with the following scheme:
`a0${account.clientId}`

    ![Lock.png](/media/articles/native-platforms/ios-objc/url-type-register.png)

3. Create and configure an instance of `A0Lock` with your Auth0 credentials from `Info.plist`. This sample uses a custom object called `MyApplication`:

${snippet(meta.snippets.setup)}

**NOTE:** You can create `A0Lock` in any other class, even in your `AppDelegate`, the only requirement is that you keep it in a **strong** reference.

## Register Native Authentication Handlers

1. In your `AppDelegate` method `application:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:`, add the following lines:

```objc
A0Lock *lock = [[MyApplication sharedInstance] lock];
[lock applicationLaunchedWithOptions:launchOptions];
```

2. Add the following import:

```objc
#import <Lock/Lock.h>
#import “MyApplication.h"
```

3. To allow native logins using other iOS apps (e.g: Twitter, Facebook, Safari etc.), add the following method:

```objc
- (BOOL)application:(UIApplication *)application openURL:(NSURL *)url sourceApplication:(NSString *)sourceApplication annotation:(id)annotation {
    A0Lock *lock = [[MyApplication sharedInstance] lock];
    return [lock handleURL:url sourceApplication:sourceApplication];
}
```

::: panel-info Configuration
Before continuing to configure either Facebook or Twitter integration, check that you have enabled and correctly configured the social connection with your credentials in the [Dashboard](${manage_url}/#/connections/social).
:::

#### Important: Google Connections

Google recently announced they will no longer support web-views, it is *highly recommended* you update your code to use Safari for web based authentication.

##### Podfile

Update your Podfile to include:

```ruby
pod 'Lock/Safari'
```

You should add the following code before you present Lock to the user. If you have multiple connections you wish to
use with Safari you will need to specify each one manually as above.

To use Safari for the default Google social connection, add the following:

```objc
#import <Lock/A0SafariAuthenticator.h>
```

```objc
A0Lock *lock = [A0Lock sharedLock];
A0SafariAuthenticator *safari = [[A0SafariAuthenticator alloc] initWithLock:lock connectionName:@"google-oauth2"];
[lock registerAuthenticators:@[safari]];   
```

**NOTE:** If you need Facebook or Twitter native authentication, continue reading to learn how to configure these. Otherwise, skip to [Implement the login](#implement-the-login).

### Facebook

Lock uses the native Facebook SDK to obtain the user's access token. Use the information from your app that is configured for Facebook connections in the Auth0 dashboard:

1. Add the following entries to the `Info.plist`:

  | Key | Value |
| --- | --- |
| FacebookAppID | `YOUR_FACEBOOK_APP_ID` |
| FacebookDisplayName | `YOUR_FACEBOOK_DISPLAY_NAME` |


2. Register a custom URL Type with the format `fb<FacebookAppID>`.

**NOTE:** For more information on how to configure your app for Facebook, see: [Facebook Getting Started Guide](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/ios/getting-started) and [Connect your app to Facebook](/connections/social/facebook).

Here is an example of how the entries should look:

![FB plist](/media/articles/native-platforms/ios-objc/fb-plist.png)

3. Add the following key to the `Info.plist` inside the main `<dict>` key. To open this file in Source Code mode within Xcode, **Control-Click** (or right click) on it, and select **Open As > Source Code**.

```xml
<key>LSApplicationQueriesSchemes</key>
<array>
        <string>fbapi</string>
        <string>fb-messenger-api</string>
        <string>fbauth2</string>
        <string>fbshareextension</string>
</array>
```
**NOTE:** These entries enable compatibility with iOS 9. You can get more information about this on Facebook's developer portal at: [Preparing your apps for iOS 9](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/ios/ios9).

4. Add Lock Facebook's Pod:

`pod 'Lock-Facebook', '~> 2.0'`

5. Add to the import:

`#import <Lock-Facebook/A0FacebookAuthenticator.h>`

6. Register it after initializing `A0Lock`:

```objc
A0FacebookAuthenticator *facebook = [A0FacebookAuthenticator newAuthenticatorWithDefaultPermissions];
[lock registerAuthenticators:@[facebook]];
```

### Twitter

1. Add Lock Twitter's Pod

`pod 'Lock-Twitter', '~> 1.1'`

2. Add to the import:

`#import <Lock-Twitter/A0TwitterAuthenticator.h>`

3. Configure Auth0 Twitter authenticator after you initialize `A0Lock`:

```objc
NSString *twitterApiKey = ... //Remember to obfuscate your api key
NSString *twitterApiSecret = ... //Remember to obfuscate your api secret
A0TwitterAuthenticator *twitter = [A0TwitterAuthenticator newAuthenticatorWithKey:twitterApiKey andSecret:twitterApiSecret];
[lock registerAuthenticators:@[twitter]];
```

**NOTE:** For more information on configuring your app for Twitter, see: [Connect your app to Twitter](/connections/social/twitter).

## Implement the login

Now you are ready to implement the Login using Lock. You only need to instantiate and present it from any of your `UIViewControllers`, like this:

${snippet(meta.snippets.use)}

![Lock.png](/media/articles/native-platforms/ios-objc/Lock-Widget-Screenshot.png)

::: panel-info Login UI Options
There are multiple ways of implementing the login box. What you see above is the Login Widget. You can also [Build your own UI](/libraries/lock-ios/use-your-own-ui), or implement one of the passwordless Login Widgets: [SMS](/libraries/lock-ios#sms) or [TouchID](/libraries/lock-ios#touchid).
:::

On successful authentication, `onAuthenticationBlock` will yield the user's profile and tokens.

**NOTE:** To learn how to save and manage the tokens and profile, see: [Lock iOS: Saving and Refreshing JWT Tokens](/libraries/lock-ios/save-and-refresh-jwt-tokens).

## 5. Showing user information

After the user has logged in, you can use the `profile` object which contains all the user information:

```objc
  self.usernameLabel.text = profile.name;
  self.emailLabel.text = profile.email;
```

## Additional Information

See [User Profile](/user-profile) to find out all of the available properties of the user profile.

Also see: [A0UserProfile](https://github.com/auth0/Lock.iOS-OSX/blob/master/Lock/Core/A0UserProfile.h).

You can also download a [sample project](/package/native-mobile-samples/master?path=iOS/profile-sample-swift&file_path=iOS/profile-sample-swift/ProfileSample/Info.plist&type=replace&client_id=${account.clientId}) that shows how to store/update your user profile with Auth0.
