articles/support/index.md, before:

---
url: /support
---

# Support Options

## Public Forum

Auth0 offers support for __all__ subscribers. All customers, even on free accounts, can use our public [discussion forum](https://ask.auth0.com) to receive support from our engineers and search existing questions.

## Support Center

Additionally, subscribers can create a private ticket via [Support Center](https://support.auth0.com). All account administrators will be able to view and add comments to Support Center tickets. Support Center can be accessed by clicking on the **Get Support** link on the [dashboard](${manage_url}).

[Learn more about creating tickets with Support Center](/support/tickets)

### Ticket Response Times

Ticket response times will vary based on your support plan (shown below). Additionally, our platinum support customers will be provided a support phone number.

<table class="table">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th></th>
      <th>Free Subscriptions</th>
      <th>Gold/Silver/Home Grown Subscriptions</th>
      <th>Platinum Support</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>Ticket Prioritization</th>
      <td>Lowest</td>
      <td>Normal</td>
      <td>Prioritized</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>Business Hours</th>
      <td>M-F 7am-7pm</td>
      <td>M-F 7am-7pm</td>
      <td>Standard Issues: M-F 7am-7pm / Critical Outages: 24/7</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>First Response Time</th>
      <td>2-5 Business Days</td>
      <td>24 hours</td>
      <td>Standard Issues: 3 hours / Critical Outages: 1 hour</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>Subsequent Response Time</th>
      <td>2-5 Business Days</td>
      <td>48 hours</td>
      <td>Standard Issues: 24 hours / Critical Outages: ongoing</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>Discussion Forum</th>
      <td class="success">Yes</td>
      <td class="success">Yes</td>
      <td class="success">Yes</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>Ticketed Support</th>
      <td class="warning">Limited</td>
      <td class="success">Yes</td>
      <td class="success">Yes</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>Phone Support</th>
      <td class="danger">No</td>
      <td class="danger">No</td>
      <td class="success">Yes</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

If you have specific support requirements or are interested in the __Platinum Support__ option, please [contact sales](https://auth0.com/?contact=true).

Every effort will be made to respond sooner than the times listed above. However, some types of problems such as development issues that require us to install software to duplicate a problem, may take time due to the research and work required.

Commit message:

Adding descriptions for SAML, SSO, support and more

articles/support/index.md, after:

---
url: /support
description: Explains the different types of support options provided by Auth0.
---

# Support Options

## Public Forum

Auth0 offers support for __all__ subscribers. All customers, even on free accounts, can use our public [discussion forum](https://ask.auth0.com) to receive support from our engineers and search existing questions.

## Support Center

Additionally, subscribers can create a private ticket via [Support Center](https://support.auth0.com). All account administrators will be able to view and add comments to Support Center tickets. Support Center can be accessed by clicking on the **Get Support** link on the [dashboard](${manage_url}).

[Learn more about creating tickets with Support Center](/support/tickets)

### Ticket Response Times

Ticket response times will vary based on your support plan (shown below). Additionally, our platinum support customers will be provided a support phone number.

<table class="table">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th></th>
      <th>Free Subscriptions</th>
      <th>Gold/Silver/Home Grown Subscriptions</th>
      <th>Platinum Support</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>Ticket Prioritization</th>
      <td>Lowest</td>
      <td>Normal</td>
      <td>Prioritized</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>Business Hours</th>
      <td>M-F 7am-7pm</td>
      <td>M-F 7am-7pm</td>
      <td>Standard Issues: M-F 7am-7pm / Critical Outages: 24/7</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>First Response Time</th>
      <td>2-5 Business Days</td>
      <td>24 hours</td>
      <td>Standard Issues: 3 hours / Critical Outages: 1 hour</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>Subsequent Response Time</th>
      <td>2-5 Business Days</td>
      <td>48 hours</td>
      <td>Standard Issues: 24 hours / Critical Outages: ongoing</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>Discussion Forum</th>
      <td class="success">Yes</td>
      <td class="success">Yes</td>
      <td class="success">Yes</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>Ticketed Support</th>
      <td class="warning">Limited</td>
      <td class="success">Yes</td>
      <td class="success">Yes</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>Phone Support</th>
      <td class="danger">No</td>
      <td class="danger">No</td>
      <td class="success">Yes</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

If you have specific support requirements or are interested in the __Platinum Support__ option, please [contact sales](https://auth0.com/?contact=true).

Every effort will be made to respond sooner than the times listed above. However, some types of problems such as development issues that require us to install software to duplicate a problem, may take time due to the research and work required.
