articles/support/tickets.md, before:

# Opening and Managing Tickets in Support Center

With [Support Center](https://support.auth0.com), you can create tickets for questions or issues you are experiencing. You need to be a full administrator of an Auth0 account to access Support Center.

If you are an existing Appliance customer, you will need to create an Auth0 cloud-based account to log in to the Support Center. This account can also be used for Dev/Test purposes at no additional cost. Please contact your Customer Success Manager or Sales Executive to associate your cloud-based account to your existing Appliance subscription.

## Opening a New Ticket

1. From [Support Center](https://support.auth0.com), click on the **OPEN TICKET** button.
![](/media/articles/support/open-ticket.png)
1. Choose the "Affected Account" from the dropdown menu.
1.  Under "What can we help you with?" select the type of issue that best fits your case.
![](/media/articles/support/issue-types.png)
    * **Auth0 Service Issue** - Choose this if something isn’t working correctly or you need help using a feature or getting something working.
        * With Service Issues, you will be asked to select a severity:
            *  **Low: Product Question** - You have questions about how things work, whether we support something
            * **Normal: General Support Question** - You are in development and have a question about how to configure something or how to resolve an error
            * **High: Production Application Issue** - Your Production application is experiencing a minor outage impacting some users/feature(s)
            * **Urgent: Production Application Offline** - Your Production application is experiencing a critical outage impacting all users
        *  You will then be asked to choose an option under "What is the service issue related to?"
            *  _You may be prompted for additional information depending on your selection._
    * **Billing, Payments, or Account Issues** - You are experiencing issues such as incorrect billing, charges to the incorrect account, and so on
    * **Auth0 Service Feedback** - You would like to suggested product improvements or enhancement requests
    * **Vulnerability Reports or Legal Issues** - You would like to report security vulnerabilities or legal questions
    * **Other** - You have a question that does not fall under any of the above categories
1. Next, provide a clear summary of the question/issue in the **Subject** field.
1. In the **Description** box, provide as much detail as possible about the issue. When writing in this box, you can style your text with [Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown) and preview what you have written by clicking on **Preview**.
    When writing your description, please try to include (if applicable):
    * What were you trying to do?
    * What did you expect to happen?
    * Where did things go wrong?
    * Were there any error messages or screen shots showing the problem? If so, please include them.
    * Has this worked before, or are you trying a new configuration?
    * Does the problem occur for all users or just a few?
    * What troubleshooting steps have you tried?
1. When you have completed all the fields, click on the **SUBMIT** button.

## Updating an Existing Ticket

1. You can view the existing tickets you have filed by going to the [Support Center](https://support.auth0.com) page and clicking on the **Home** link. Select the ticket that you want to update by clicking on its subject.
![](/media/articles/support/select-ticket.png)

1. Enter any additional details into the text box and then click the **REPLY** button. If you are the ticket requester and the ticket is assigned to an agent, but is not solved or closed, you have the option to change the status of your ticket to **Solved** by checking the **Submit as solved** box next to the **REPLY** button.
![](/media/articles/support/update-ticket.png)

Commit message:

Adding descriptions for SAML, SSO, support and more

articles/support/tickets.md, after:

---
decription: How to open and manage tickets with Support Center.
---

# Opening and Managing Tickets in Support Center

With [Support Center](https://support.auth0.com), you can create tickets for questions or issues you are experiencing. You need to be a full administrator of an Auth0 account to access Support Center.

If you are an existing Appliance customer, you will need to create an Auth0 cloud-based account to log in to the Support Center. This account can also be used for Dev/Test purposes at no additional cost. Please contact your Customer Success Manager or Sales Executive to associate your cloud-based account to your existing Appliance subscription.

## Opening a New Ticket

1. From [Support Center](https://support.auth0.com), click on the **OPEN TICKET** button.
![](/media/articles/support/open-ticket.png)
1. Choose the "Affected Account" from the dropdown menu.
1.  Under "What can we help you with?" select the type of issue that best fits your case.
![](/media/articles/support/issue-types.png)
    * **Auth0 Service Issue** - Choose this if something isn’t working correctly or you need help using a feature or getting something working.
        * With Service Issues, you will be asked to select a severity:
            *  **Low: Product Question** - You have questions about how things work, whether we support something
            * **Normal: General Support Question** - You are in development and have a question about how to configure something or how to resolve an error
            * **High: Production Application Issue** - Your Production application is experiencing a minor outage impacting some users/feature(s)
            * **Urgent: Production Application Offline** - Your Production application is experiencing a critical outage impacting all users
        *  You will then be asked to choose an option under "What is the service issue related to?"
            *  _You may be prompted for additional information depending on your selection._
    * **Billing, Payments, or Account Issues** - You are experiencing issues such as incorrect billing, charges to the incorrect account, and so on
    * **Auth0 Service Feedback** - You would like to suggested product improvements or enhancement requests
    * **Vulnerability Reports or Legal Issues** - You would like to report security vulnerabilities or legal questions
    * **Other** - You have a question that does not fall under any of the above categories
1. Next, provide a clear summary of the question/issue in the **Subject** field.
1. In the **Description** box, provide as much detail as possible about the issue. When writing in this box, you can style your text with [Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown) and preview what you have written by clicking on **Preview**.
    When writing your description, please try to include (if applicable):
    * What were you trying to do?
    * What did you expect to happen?
    * Where did things go wrong?
    * Were there any error messages or screen shots showing the problem? If so, please include them.
    * Has this worked before, or are you trying a new configuration?
    * Does the problem occur for all users or just a few?
    * What troubleshooting steps have you tried?
1. When you have completed all the fields, click on the **SUBMIT** button.

## Updating an Existing Ticket

1. You can view the existing tickets you have filed by going to the [Support Center](https://support.auth0.com) page and clicking on the **Home** link. Select the ticket that you want to update by clicking on its subject.
![](/media/articles/support/select-ticket.png)

1. Enter any additional details into the text box and then click the **REPLY** button. If you are the ticket requester and the ticket is assigned to an agent, but is not solved or closed, you have the option to change the status of your ticket to **Solved** by checking the **Submit as solved** box next to the **REPLY** button.
![](/media/articles/support/update-ticket.png)
