articles/client-platforms/react/08-calling-apis.md, before:

---
title: Calling APIs
description: This tutorial will show you how to make authenticated api calls with ReactJS.
---

<%= include('../../_includes/_github', {
  link: 'https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-react-sample/tree/master/08-Calling-Api',
}) %>_

The reason for implementing authentication in the first place is to protect information. In this case your information is a resource served from a server of any sort. Auth0 provides a squad of tools to assist you with end-to-end authentication in an application. Auth0 suggests you conform to RFC standard by sending the token through Authorization header.

## 1. Add Authentication Header to Requests

In order to make an authorized request in our example, we need to send the `Authorization` header containing the JWT Token. For more information, please refer to [JSON Web Tokens documentation](https://jwt.io/introduction/). The token will be extracted from request header and decoded by the server, validating the authencaticated user.

To make it easy for us to send requests with the correct headers, let's update `AuthService` adding a new helper method to wrap the native [`fetch`](https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/) and add the authorization value for us:

```javascript
/* ===== ./src/utils/AuthService.js ===== */
import { EventEmitter } from 'events'
import { isTokenExpired } from './jwtHelper'
import Auth0Lock from 'auth0-lock'

export default class AuthService extends EventEmitter {
  ... // omitting some code

  _checkStatus(response) {
    // raises an error in case response status is not a success
    if (response.status >= 200 && response.status < 300) {
      return response
    } else {
      var error = new Error(response.statusText)
      error.response = response
      throw error
    }
  }

  fetch(url, options){
    // performs api calls sending the required authentication headers
    const headers = {
      'Accept': 'application/json',
      'Content-Type': 'application/json'
    }
    // if logged in, includes the authorization header
    if (this.loggedIn()){
      headers['Authorization'] = 'Bearer ' + this.getToken()
    }

    return fetch(url, {
      headers,
      ...options
    })
    .then(this._checkStatus) // to raise errors for wrong status
    .then(response => response.json()) // to parse the response as json
  }
}
```

As you see, there is a new `fetch` method created to send requests to private endpoints. As the native `fetch` always resolves the returned promise even for response status 401 (unauthorized), we're also adding a method to the promise stack that throws an `Error` for that case: `_checkStatus`.

## 2. Create a Simple Server

To exemplify how server would handle public and private endpoints, we're introducing a simple `node.js` server based on [`express`](https://expressjs.com/) and [`express-jwt`](https://github.com/auth0/express-jwt). It's very basic server with only two endpoints: `/api/public` and `/api/private`:


```javascript
/* ===== ./server.js ===== */
var express = require('express');
var app = express();
var jwt = require('express-jwt');
require('dotenv').config();

var authenticate = jwt({
  secret: new Buffer(process.env.AUTH0_SECRET, 'base64'),
  audience: process.env.AUTH0_CLIENT_ID
});

app.get('/api/public', function(req, res) {
  res.json({ message: "Hello from a public endpoint! You don't need to be authenticated to see this." });
});

app.get('/api/private', authenticate, function(req, res) {
  res.json({ message: "Hello from a private endpoint! You DO need to be authenticated to see this." });
});

app.listen(3001);
console.log('Listening on http://localhost:3001');
```

Both endpoints send a json response with a message attribute, but `/api/private` is using the __authenticate__ callback to validate the token received in `Authentication` header. `express-jwt` is responsible to parse and validate the token (please, check [`express-jwt` documentation for more details](https://github.com/auth0/express-jwt)). Notice we're using `dotenv` package to load `process.env.AUTH0_SECRET` and `process.env.AUTH0_CLIENT_ID` from `.env` file.

<% if (account.userName) { %>
If you don't have a `.env` file in your project you can create your own using the following command:

```bash
$ echo "AUTH0_CLIENT_ID='${account.clientId}\nAUTH0_DOMAIN='${account.namespace}'\nAUTH0_SECRET='account.secret'" > .env
```
<% } else { %>
If you don't have a `.env` file in you project, please copy `.env.example` and add your own credentials from [auth0 dashboard](${uiURL}).

```bash
$ cp .env.example .env
```
<% } %>

To test the server, just run `node server.js` and it should be listening in port 3001 of localhost.


## 3. Add a Proxy and Start the Server

As we'll be calling the server api from the client code, we need to proxy the calls to prevent have to use [`cors`](https://github.com/expressjs/cors), since client is served in port 3000 and the server api in 3001. To create the proxy we'll just add a new setting to [webpack-dev-server](https://webpack.github.io/docs/webpack-dev-server.html) in `webpack.config.js` file:

```javascript
/* ===== ./webpack.config.js ===== */
...
var config = getConfig({
  isDev: isDev,
  in: join(src, 'app.js'),
  out: dest,
  html: function (context) {
    return {
      'index.html': context.defaultTemplate({
        title: 'auth0 React Sample',
        publicPath: isDev ? 'http://localhost:3000/' : '',
        meta: {
          'name': 'auth0 React Sample',
          'description': 'A minimal reactJS sample application showing auth0 integration'
        }
      })
    }
  },
  devServer: { // settings for webpack-dev-server
    proxy: { //proxying /api calls to 3001 port
      context: "/api",
      options: {
        target: "http://localhost:3001"
      }
    }
  }
});
...
```

With a proxy ready, let's update our `start` script to start both `webpack-dev-server` and our `server.js` at the same time. The updated `scripts` entry in `package.json` seems like:

```javascript
/* ===== ./package.json ===== */
"scripts": {
    "start": "cross-env NODE_ENV=development hjs-dev-server & node server.js",
    ...
}
```

Now when you run `npm start` both servers should be up with the proxy active.

## 4. Show Public and Private Responses

Since we have updated `AuthService` to provide a custom `fetch` method for private requests and we also have created our sample server, we're ready to update our ReactJS application to render the server responses. To accomplish that, let's create a new component named `Messages` in the folder `src/components/Messages`:

```javascript
/* ===== ./src/components/Messages/Messages.js ===== */
import React, { PropTypes as T } from 'react'
import {ListGroup, ListGroupItem} from 'react-bootstrap'
import AuthService from 'utils/AuthService'
import styles from './styles.module.css'

export class Messages extends React.Component {
  static propTypes = {
    auth: T.instanceOf(AuthService)
  }

  constructor(props, context) {
    super(props, context)
    this.state = {
      publicMsg: "",
      privateMsg: ""
    }
    this.callApis()
  }

  callApis(){
    const { auth } = this.props
    // public http request
    fetch('/api/public')
      .then(response => response.json())
      .then(response => this.setState({publicMsg: response.message}))
    // using auth to send an http request with authorization header
    auth.fetch('/api/private')
      .then(response => this.setState({privateMsg: response.message}))
      .catch(error => this.setState({privateMsg: "" + error}))
  }

  render(){
    return (
      <ListGroup className={styles.root}>
        <ListGroupItem header="/api/public response">
          {this.state.publicMsg}
        </ListGroupItem>
        <ListGroupItem header="/api/private response">
          {this.state.privateMsg}
        </ListGroupItem>
      </ListGroup>
    )
  }
}

export default Messages;
```

Reading the above code you'll notice that both server endpoints will receive requests as soon the component is created. `callApis` is responsible to use the regular `fetch` for the public api, and the `auth.fetch` for the private api, updating the component internal state after receiving the responses. `auth` is an `AuthService` instance expected as a prop, and the component renders a `ListGroup` with two `ListGroupItem` to display the server messages.

Finally, we need to include `Messages` component in an application view. As our goal here is to show how it works in authenticated and not authenticated situations, we'll not include it just in `Home` (where the user is already authenticated) but also in `Login`, to make sure the private api requests fails:

```javascript
/* ===== ./src/views/Main/Home/Home.js ===== */
...
export class Home extends React.Component {
  ...
  render(){
    const { profile } = this.state
    return (
      <div className={styles.root}>
        <h2>Home</h2>
        <p>Welcome {profile.name}!</p>
        <Messages auth={this.props.auth}></Messages>
        <Button onClick={this.logout.bind(this)}>Logout</Button>
      </div>
    )
  }
}

export default Home;
```

```javascript
/* ===== ./src/views/Main/Login/Login.js ===== */
...
export class Login extends React.Component {
  ...
  render() {
    const { auth } = this.props
    return (
      <div className={styles.root}>
        <h2>Login</h2>
        <Messages auth={this.props.auth}></Messages>
        <ButtonToolbar className={styles.toolbar}>
          <Button bsStyle="primary" onClick={auth.login.bind(this)}>Login</Button>
        </ButtonToolbar>
      </div>
    )
  }
}

export default Login;
```

Finally, when you run the application you see the server api responses for public and private in Home and Login pages, with the difference that the private call in Login returns an authorization error.

## 5. All Done!

You have completed the implementation of calling protected apis with Auth0 user token in your ReactJS project.

Commit message:

react 08-calling-apis: system requirements box

articles/client-platforms/react/08-calling-apis.md, after:

---
title: Calling APIs
description: This tutorial will show you how to make authenticated api calls with ReactJS.
---

::: panel-info System Requirements
This tutorial and seed project have been tested with the following:
* NodeJS 5.2.0
* NPM 3.3.12
* React 15.0.2
:::

<%= include('../../_includes/_github', {
  link: 'https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-react-sample/tree/master/08-Calling-Api',
}) %>_

The reason for implementing authentication in the first place is to protect information. In this case your information is a resource served from a server of any sort. Auth0 provides a squad of tools to assist you with end-to-end authentication in an application. Auth0 suggests you conform to RFC standard by sending the token through Authorization header.

## 1. Add Authentication Header to Requests

In order to make an authorized request in our example, we need to send the `Authorization` header containing the JWT Token. For more information, please refer to [JSON Web Tokens documentation](https://jwt.io/introduction/). The token will be extracted from request header and decoded by the server, validating the authencaticated user.

To make it easy for us to send requests with the correct headers, let's update `AuthService` adding a new helper method to wrap the native [`fetch`](https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/) and add the authorization value for us:

```javascript
/* ===== ./src/utils/AuthService.js ===== */
import { EventEmitter } from 'events'
import { isTokenExpired } from './jwtHelper'
import Auth0Lock from 'auth0-lock'

export default class AuthService extends EventEmitter {
  ... // omitting some code

  _checkStatus(response) {
    // raises an error in case response status is not a success
    if (response.status >= 200 && response.status < 300) {
      return response
    } else {
      var error = new Error(response.statusText)
      error.response = response
      throw error
    }
  }

  fetch(url, options){
    // performs api calls sending the required authentication headers
    const headers = {
      'Accept': 'application/json',
      'Content-Type': 'application/json'
    }
    // if logged in, includes the authorization header
    if (this.loggedIn()){
      headers['Authorization'] = 'Bearer ' + this.getToken()
    }

    return fetch(url, {
      headers,
      ...options
    })
    .then(this._checkStatus) // to raise errors for wrong status
    .then(response => response.json()) // to parse the response as json
  }
}
```

As you see, there is a new `fetch` method created to send requests to private endpoints. As the native `fetch` always resolves the returned promise even for response status 401 (unauthorized), we're also adding a method to the promise stack that throws an `Error` for that case: `_checkStatus`.

## 2. Create a Simple Server

To exemplify how server would handle public and private endpoints, we're introducing a simple `node.js` server based on [`express`](https://expressjs.com/) and [`express-jwt`](https://github.com/auth0/express-jwt). It's very basic server with only two endpoints: `/api/public` and `/api/private`:


```javascript
/* ===== ./server.js ===== */
var express = require('express');
var app = express();
var jwt = require('express-jwt');
require('dotenv').config();

var authenticate = jwt({
  secret: new Buffer(process.env.AUTH0_SECRET, 'base64'),
  audience: process.env.AUTH0_CLIENT_ID
});

app.get('/api/public', function(req, res) {
  res.json({ message: "Hello from a public endpoint! You don't need to be authenticated to see this." });
});

app.get('/api/private', authenticate, function(req, res) {
  res.json({ message: "Hello from a private endpoint! You DO need to be authenticated to see this." });
});

app.listen(3001);
console.log('Listening on http://localhost:3001');
```

Both endpoints send a json response with a message attribute, but `/api/private` is using the __authenticate__ callback to validate the token received in `Authentication` header. `express-jwt` is responsible to parse and validate the token (please, check [`express-jwt` documentation for more details](https://github.com/auth0/express-jwt)). Notice we're using `dotenv` package to load `process.env.AUTH0_SECRET` and `process.env.AUTH0_CLIENT_ID` from `.env` file.

<% if (account.userName) { %>
If you don't have a `.env` file in your project you can create your own using the following command:

```bash
$ echo "AUTH0_CLIENT_ID='${account.clientId}\nAUTH0_DOMAIN='${account.namespace}'\nAUTH0_SECRET='account.secret'" > .env
```
<% } else { %>
If you don't have a `.env` file in you project, please copy `.env.example` and add your own credentials from [dashboard](${uiURL}).

```bash
$ cp .env.example .env
```
<% } %>

To test the server, just run `node server.js` and it should be listening in port 3001 of localhost.


## 3. Add a Proxy and Start the Server

As we'll be calling the server api from the client code, we need to proxy the calls to prevent have to use [`cors`](https://github.com/expressjs/cors), since client is served in port 3000 and the server api in 3001. To create the proxy we'll just add a new setting to [webpack-dev-server](https://webpack.github.io/docs/webpack-dev-server.html) in `webpack.config.js` file:

```javascript
/* ===== ./webpack.config.js ===== */
...
var config = getConfig({
  isDev: isDev,
  in: join(src, 'app.js'),
  out: dest,
  html: function (context) {
    return {
      'index.html': context.defaultTemplate({
        title: 'auth0 React Sample',
        publicPath: isDev ? 'http://localhost:3000/' : '',
        meta: {
          'name': 'auth0 React Sample',
          'description': 'A minimal reactJS sample application showing auth0 integration'
        }
      })
    }
  },
  devServer: { // settings for webpack-dev-server
    proxy: { //proxying /api calls to 3001 port
      context: "/api",
      options: {
        target: "http://localhost:3001"
      }
    }
  }
});
...
```

With a proxy ready, let's update our `start` script to start both `webpack-dev-server` and our `server.js` at the same time. The updated `scripts` entry in `package.json` seems like:

```javascript
/* ===== ./package.json ===== */
"scripts": {
    "start": "cross-env NODE_ENV=development hjs-dev-server & node server.js",
    ...
}
```

Now when you run `npm start` both servers should be up with the proxy active.

## 4. Show Public and Private Responses

Since we have updated `AuthService` to provide a custom `fetch` method for private requests and we also have created our sample server, we're ready to update our ReactJS application to render the server responses. To accomplish that, let's create a new component named `Messages` in the folder `src/components/Messages`:

```javascript
/* ===== ./src/components/Messages/Messages.js ===== */
import React, { PropTypes as T } from 'react'
import {ListGroup, ListGroupItem} from 'react-bootstrap'
import AuthService from 'utils/AuthService'
import styles from './styles.module.css'

export class Messages extends React.Component {
  static propTypes = {
    auth: T.instanceOf(AuthService)
  }

  constructor(props, context) {
    super(props, context)
    this.state = {
      publicMsg: "",
      privateMsg: ""
    }
    this.callApis()
  }

  callApis(){
    const { auth } = this.props
    // public http request
    fetch('/api/public')
      .then(response => response.json())
      .then(response => this.setState({publicMsg: response.message}))
    // using auth to send an http request with authorization header
    auth.fetch('/api/private')
      .then(response => this.setState({privateMsg: response.message}))
      .catch(error => this.setState({privateMsg: "" + error}))
  }

  render(){
    return (
      <ListGroup className={styles.root}>
        <ListGroupItem header="/api/public response">
          {this.state.publicMsg}
        </ListGroupItem>
        <ListGroupItem header="/api/private response">
          {this.state.privateMsg}
        </ListGroupItem>
      </ListGroup>
    )
  }
}

export default Messages;
```

Reading the above code you'll notice that both server endpoints will receive requests as soon the component is created. `callApis` is responsible to use the regular `fetch` for the public api, and the `auth.fetch` for the private api, updating the component internal state after receiving the responses. `auth` is an `AuthService` instance expected as a prop, and the component renders a `ListGroup` with two `ListGroupItem` to display the server messages.

Finally, we need to include `Messages` component in an application view. As our goal here is to show how it works in authenticated and not authenticated situations, we'll not include it just in `Home` (where the user is already authenticated) but also in `Login`, to make sure the private api requests fails:

```javascript
/* ===== ./src/views/Main/Home/Home.js ===== */
...
export class Home extends React.Component {
  ...
  render(){
    const { profile } = this.state
    return (
      <div className={styles.root}>
        <h2>Home</h2>
        <p>Welcome {profile.name}!</p>
        <Messages auth={this.props.auth}></Messages>
        <Button onClick={this.logout.bind(this)}>Logout</Button>
      </div>
    )
  }
}

export default Home;
```

```javascript
/* ===== ./src/views/Main/Login/Login.js ===== */
...
export class Login extends React.Component {
  ...
  render() {
    const { auth } = this.props
    return (
      <div className={styles.root}>
        <h2>Login</h2>
        <Messages auth={this.props.auth}></Messages>
        <ButtonToolbar className={styles.toolbar}>
          <Button bsStyle="primary" onClick={auth.login.bind(this)}>Login</Button>
        </ButtonToolbar>
      </div>
    )
  }
}

export default Login;
```

Finally, when you run the application you see the server api responses for public and private in Home and Login pages, with the difference that the private call in Login returns an authorization error.

## 5. All Done!

You have completed the implementation of calling protected apis with Auth0 user token in your ReactJS project.
