---
title: MFA
description: This tutorial will show you how to add Multi-factor Authentication to your ReactJS with auth0.
---

<%= include('../../_includes/_github', {
  link: 'https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-react-sample/tree/master/09-MFA'
}) %>_

Multi-factor Authentication (MFA) is an important method to add an extra security layer to your authentication flow. With this option enabled in your auth0 account, the process to grant user access to the application will require a verification step.  Besides the username and password combination, a verification code generated by a mobile application or sent by SMS is required. Currently auth0 supports [auth0 Guardian](/multifactor-authentication/guardian), Google Authenticator and Duo. Sending the code as SMS is also an option. For more details refer to [Multifactor Authentication in Auth0](/multifactor-authentication).

On this tutorial you'll learn how to enable MFA in a ReactJS application created in the previous steps, such as [/docs/quickstart/spa/react/01-login](Login).

## 1. Enable Multifactor Authentication in Your Account

First thing to do is open your [auth0 dashboard]({$uiURL}) and copy the __CLIENT_ID__ value assigned to the application you want to enable MFA.

![dashboard CLIENT_ID screenshot]

Then in the dashboard sidebar, click on __Multifactor Auth__ link to load MFA settings page and enable the __Push Notifications__ option.

![dashboard MFA with push notification enabled]

After enabling it, you need to add the application CLIENT_ID to the __Customize MFA__ area. The Javascript code will be similar to:

```javascript
function (user, context, callback) {
  <% if (account.clientId) { %>
  var CLIENTS_WITH_MFA = ['${account.clientId}'];
  <% } else { %>
  var CLIENTS_WITH_MFA = ['YOUR_CLIENT_ID'];
  <% } %>
  // run only for the specified clients
  // if (CLIENTS_WITH_MFA.indexOf(context.clientID) !== -1) {
    // uncomment the following if clause in case you want to request a second factor only from user's that have user_metadata.use_mfa === true
    // if (user.user_metadata && user.user_metadata.use_mfa){
      context.multifactor = {
        provider: 'guardian', //required

        ignoreCookie: true, // optional. Force Auth0 MFA everytime this rule runs. Defaults to false. if accepted by users the cookie lasts for 30 days (this cannot be changed)
      };
    // }
  //}

  callback(null, user, context);
}
```

After updating the code with your CLIENT_ID value, hit the __save__ button and you're ready to test it in your application.

## 2. All done!

There is no need to update the code we have created in Login tutorial. As soon you try to sign in, you should be prompted to setup an 2-Factor authenticator application (auth0 Guardian is the default).

You have completed the Multi-factor authentication setup with Auth0 in your ReactJS project.
