articles/cancel-paid-subscriptions.md, before:

# Cancelling Your Auth0 Subscription

When cancelling your Auth0 subscription, you have two options:

1. Downgrading a paid subscription to a free subscription;
2. Closing your Auth0 account.

## Downgrading a Paid Subscription to a Free Subscription

1. Log in to the Auth0 Management Dashboard.
2. Click on your username in the top right corner to bring up the associated dropdown box.

![](/media/articles/subscriptions/dashboard.png)

3. Click on Account Settings.
4. Once the Account Settings page is open, click on the Subscription tab.

![](/media/articles/subscriptions/subscription.png)

5. On the Subscription tab, scroll down to the box associated with the Free plan. Click on "Checkout."

![](/media/articles/subscriptions/free-subscription.png)

6. Confirm your subscription change by clicking on "Subscribe Now."  

## Closing Your Auth0 Account

::: warning-banner
This action cannot be undone.
:::

1. Log in to the Auth0 Management Dashboard.
2. Click on your username in the top right corner to bring up the associated dropdown box.

![](/media/articles/subscriptions/dashboard.png)

3. Click on Account Settings.
4. Once the Account Settings page is open, click on the Advanced tab.

![](/media/articles/subscriptions/advanced.png)

5. Scroll to the "Danger Zone" at the bottom of the Advanced page, and click "Delete."

![](/media/articles/subscriptions/danger-zone.png)

Commit message:

Cancel Subscription - button text in bold, added description

articles/cancel-paid-subscriptions.md, after:

---
description: To cancel your Auth0 subscription, you can downgrade to a free subscription or close your account.
---

# Cancelling Your Auth0 Subscription

If you wish to cancel your Auth0 subscription, you have two options:

1. [Downgrade](#downgrade-a-paid-subscription-to-a-free-subscription) a paid subscription to a free subscription;
2. [Close](#close-your-auth0-account) your Auth0 account.

## Downgrade a Paid Subscription to a Free Subscription

1. Log in to the Auth0 [Management Dashboard](${uiURL}).
2. Click on your username in the top right corner to bring up the associated dropdown box.

![](/media/articles/subscriptions/dashboard.png)

3. Select **Account Settings**.
4. On the **Account Settings** page, click on the **Subscription** tab.

![](/media/articles/subscriptions/subscription.png)

5. On the **Subscription** tab, scroll down to the box associated with the **Free** plan and click **Checkout**.

![](/media/articles/subscriptions/free-subscription.png)

6. To confirm your subscription change, click **Subscribe Now**. 

## Close Your Auth0 Account

::: warning-banner
This action cannot be undone.
:::

1. Log in to the Auth0 [Management Dashboard](${uiURL}).
2. Click on your username in the top right corner to bring up the associated dropdown box.

![](/media/articles/subscriptions/dashboard.png)

3. Select **Account Settings**.
4. On the **Account Settings** page is open, click on the **Advanced** tab.

![](/media/articles/subscriptions/advanced.png)

5. Scroll down to the **Danger Zone** at the bottom of the page, and click **Delete**.

![](/media/articles/subscriptions/danger-zone.png)
