articles/native-platforms/ionic/02-custom-login.md, before:

---
title: Custom Login
description: This tutorial will show you how to use the Auth0 Ionic SDK to add authentication and authorization to your mobile app.
---

<%= include('../../_includes/_package', {
  githubUrl: 'https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-ionic-samples',
  pkgOrg: 'auth0-samples',
  pkgRepo: 'auth0-ionic-samples',
  pkgBranch: 'master',
  pkgPath: '02-Custom-Login',
  pkgFilePath: '02-Custom-Login/www/app/auth0.variables.js',
  pkgType: 'replace'
}) %>

::: panel-info Running the Sample
At any point in time you can run this sample by going to the `02-Custom-Login` folder of the sample project and running `ionic serve`
:::

The previous step explained how you can log users into your application using the Lock Widget. You do not have to use Lock, and can instead create a custom login page and log the user in using a username and password they supply through a customer user interface.

If you are using social logins, you can also launch the login screen for a particular social login provider directly from your Ionic application.

### 1. Update references

The custom login uses the Auth0.js library to sign a user in, so you should therefor reference this library instead of the Lock widget in your `index.html`. Replace the existing reference to `lib/auth0-lock/build/auth0-lock.js` with `lib/auth0.js/build/auth0.js`:

${snippet(meta.snippets.referencescustom)}

### 2. Implement the login

For the login view you must display a Username and Password field to allow the user to sign in with their email address and password, and also display a button which will allow the user to sign in with their Google account.

Go ahead and update your `login.html` you did in Step 1:

${snippet(meta.snippets.loginviewcustom)}

Also change the `LoginController` to sign the user in with the supplied `username` and `password` fields, or alternatively launch the Google login dialog when the user clicks on the **Login with Google** button:

${snippet(meta.snippets.logincustom)}

Notice that in the `onLoginSuccess` method, which is called when a user successfully authenticates, the `profile`, `token`, `accessToken` and `refreshToken` values are saved to Local storage. These values can be retrieve from Local storage at a later stage, for example when you want to display the user's profile information which will be done in Step 3.

Commit message:

added system requirements and updated to lock v10 ionic tutorial

articles/native-platforms/ionic/02-custom-login.md, after:

---
title: Custom Login
description: This tutorial will show you how to use the Auth0 Ionic SDK to add authentication and authorization to your mobile app.
---

<%= include('../../_includes/_package', {
  githubUrl: 'https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-ionic-samples',
  pkgOrg: 'auth0-samples',
  pkgRepo: 'auth0-ionic-samples',
  pkgBranch: 'master',
  pkgPath: '02-Custom-Login',
  pkgFilePath: '02-Custom-Login/www/app/auth0.variables.js',
  pkgType: 'replace'
}) %>

::: panel-info System Requirements
This tutorial and seed project have been tested with the following:
* Ionic 1.3.1
* NodeJS 6.5.0
:::

::: panel-info Running the Sample
At any point in time you can run this sample by going to the `02-Custom-Login` folder of the sample project and running `ionic serve`
:::

The previous step explained how you can log users into your application using the Lock Widget. You do not have to use Lock, and can instead create a custom login page and log the user in using a username and password they supply through a customer user interface.

If you are using social logins, you can also launch the login screen for a particular social login provider directly from your Ionic application.

### 1. Update references

The custom login uses the Auth0.js library to sign a user in, so you should therefor reference this library instead of the Lock widget in your `index.html`. Replace the existing reference to `lib/auth0-lock/build/auth0-lock.js` with `lib/auth0.js/build/auth0.js`:

${snippet(meta.snippets.referencescustom)}

### 2. Implement the login

For the login view you must display a Username and Password field to allow the user to sign in with their email address and password, and also display a button which will allow the user to sign in with their Google account.

Go ahead and update your `login.html` you did in Step 1:

${snippet(meta.snippets.loginviewcustom)}

Also change the `LoginController` to sign the user in with the supplied `username` and `password` fields, or alternatively launch the Google login dialog when the user clicks on the **Login with Google** button:

${snippet(meta.snippets.logincustom)}

Notice that in the `onLoginSuccess` method, which is called when a user successfully authenticates, the `profile`, `token`, `accessToken` and `refreshToken` values are saved to Local storage. These values can be retrieve from Local storage at a later stage, for example when you want to display the user's profile information which will be done in Step 3.
